[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Good morning.
My name is Sunny Chayes.
And I'm one of the introducers
here at Conscious Life Expo.
And I have the absolute pleasure
to introduce a person who's
going to be speaking today.
And I was thinking about
what I wanted to say.
And I was thinking I could talk
about the movie she's been in,
and she will be.
I can talk about her
expertise in different things.
I could talk about
her just many things
that you can actually Google.
And I recommend that you do.
But after being
here this weekend,
I realize there's
so many people.
And I'm sure everyone
in here is just,
I want to make a difference.
I want to have a better life.
I want to figure
out how to do it.
I have some pain.
I have some issues.
And how do I get there?
How do I have the best life?
And you are in the
right place today
to find that out because through
Dr. Sue Morter's protocols,
her short answer, her amazing
book that is coming out,
which I love, on March 19
called "The Energy Codes--
A 7-Step System to Awaken
Your Spirit, Heal Your Body,
and Live Your Best Life"--
and I also like to say,
and find your home [LAUGHS]
in your heart and what we're
doing here and why we're here
and what's it all about--
you are definitely going
to have quite a day today.
And I'm so grateful you're
all here because you're all
going to make such a
difference in your lives
and in everyone around you.
So if we can welcome
a big way-- let
us get the party started with
Dr. Sue Morter this morning.
Come on down.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Woo-hoo!
Hey, hey.
Good morning.
Ah, welcome, welcome, welcome.
We have two hours to
change your world, OK?
[LAUGHS] That's OK, thanks.
All right, so wow.
There's so much
that I look forward
to sharing with
you, all of which
is designed, first of
all, to allow us to become
the self-healers that we are.
But it's much more than that.
Healing happens in your
body as a byproduct
of you recognizing the
truth of who you are
and embodying that,
awakening and embodying
the true magnificence
that we are.
We are cosmic beings.
We are universal intelligence.
And I'm going to share with
you some research and that kind
of thing.
But I'm just going to infuse
it into some user-friendly
practices that allow
you to actually go
home today with some
techniques and some strategies
and some know-how about how to
integrate my system so that I
can start to perceive myself
as this universal cosmic
intelligence that I truly am.
We are miraculous, just
in our very makeup.
What I'd like to do before we
get started is, first of all,
thank Conscious Life Expo for
having this amazing gathering
of an amazing number
of eclectic people
gathered together just
discovering and exploring
all kinds of aspects
of life that we
don't get exposed to outside of
really making an effort to dive
into something like this.
And I also want to
thank Gaia TV, who
has been doing a
tremendous job of accessing
the rest of the planet
with this information
that we get to have
in our conversations.
So we're connecting with
people all over the globe.
And it is about
time, wouldn't you
say, that we can have a global
partnership a global community
that is awake, that is holding
fast to a vibration that
matters so that we can start
to dissolve that which doesn't
matter, which is, in
large part, what's
been structuring so much
of our culture and so much
of our communities in
many different ways.
So here we are,
breaking the boundaries,
breaking the barriers,
and dissolving the idea
that there is a here and
a there and that we all
get to be together in
this collective way.
So thank you, Gaia TV.
My background is I am in
health care all my life.
I've been a practicing
clinician in natural health care
for 30-some years and was
trained as a chiropractor.
But I was raised in
a household where
one of the pioneers of
energy medicine lived.
So my father, Dr.
MT Morter Jr., was
a pioneer in what was considered
then very strange ideas.
It was before energy
medicine existed.
He wanted to know, why did some
of his patients heal and some
of his patients didn't?
And he was constantly
exploring what
was the common denominator.
And it took him
down to, basically,
an electromagnetic energy field.
It took him from
addressing issues regarding
health and wholeness
via the nervous system
and the functional
capacity and direction
that chiropractic and natural
health care rose up through.
And he recognized that bones
were out of place for a reason.
And the chiropractor would
put it back in place.
And the bone would
go back out of place.
And he'd put it back in place.
And he was in this ping-pong
game with his patients.
And he was like, I'm not
going to do this all my life.
So he started inquiring,
why does the bone
keep going back out of place?
What's going on here?
And so that took him into,
not the spinal nerve level,
but it took him up
to the high brain
centers that basically, the
nervous system was perceiving
that there was a reason for
that muscle to be tight.
And it was tight in a defensive
physiology kind of state,
like if a bear came
in the room, it's
appropriate for the muscles
around your spine to be tight.
And if they get locked
into that pattern,
they remain tight even when
the bear goes away, right?
So he then began
to recognize, we're
not actually in front
of bears all that often.
It's not actually really
happening this way.
And so he recognized
that there are many types
of bears in our lives.
There are chemical imbalance
bears through nutrition,
through thoughts
and the stresses
that you create because of the
chemistries that get generated
by the thoughts that you think.
So how that
translates, folks, is
that you can eat a perfect
diet that is alkalizing,
that is giving nutrients,
that is balanced
in an alkaline ash fashion--
which I'm happy to touch on
if we have some moments today.
You can do that and think
negative thoughts that
are producing more acid
than you can create
by eating an alkaline ash diet.
So you can eclipse it, just dupe
yourself right in the moment.
So I hesitate to say
you're better off
to eat the chocolate
cake and love it
than to eat the vegetables
and hate it, OK?
So--
[LAUGHTER]
--I hesitate to give that
advice because everybody's like,
woo-hoo, Dr. Sue said
chocolate cake is better.
So just to be clear, we have
to be responsible stewards
in all of this.
But the bottom line is that
my father's research then
took him into recognizing that
there were all kinds of bears.
There could be emotional bears.
In fact, that was
the number one reason
that people's
energy got blocked.
Their nervous system
got out of balance
and got locked into an
out-of-balance state.
So what I'm going
to tell you today,
I'm going to talk
about energy flow.
But I just want to give you
this little bit of background
because there's so
much more to what
I have to share with you
than what we have time
for in this box of time today.
So in his research, he
recognized that there
were physical injury bears.
There were emotional bears,
chemical imbalance bears.
There could be inheritance
bears, you bet.
But mostly what
was inherited was
dispositions and cultural
ways of living, not so much
that your genetic inheritance
was going to dictate your life
experience.
And this was in the late
'60s and the early '70s.
Since then, there has been
a tremendous out-pouring
of information
through epigenetics.
And you're probably familiar
with Dr. Bruce Lipton.
He's an old family
friend and is very much
a part of what's woven
into my very fabric.
So I was raised in this
environment where all
this research was taking place.
And it was our dinner
table conversation.
We were speaking about how
thoughts generate your reality
and how it affects
your physiology.
And it ultimately determines
the level of health and vitality
that you have and
the ability to heal
that it gets to express
through your system, et cetera.
And so this is the only health
care that I've ever had.
I've never gone to the doctor
and gotten an antibiotic
for some ailment, for some
issue to have it heal me
from a pill out of a bottle.
And as I mentioned the
other day, I'm 86 years old.
[LAUGHTER]
And so it's very important
to listen to everything
that I have to say.
It's very important.
[LAUGHS] So in
this, what I know,
not because I've read it and
researched it and calculated
and analyzed down
to this statement
that I'm about to
make, it's because
of my personal
experience with such,
that the body has the
capacity to heal itself.
It is built with
everything that it needs.
And if it isn't healing,
there's a reason.
And we go beyond, way beyond,
the capacity to self-heal.
We are supposed to
be self-illuminated,
self-referencing,
self-regulating.
We are ultimately
supposed to be aware
of our multidimensionality.
And the fact that we are not
is simply a circuitry issue.
And I'm going to
explain to you what
I mean by that because
it's imperative for us
to recognize that there is
nothing wrong with anyone.
There is nothing broken.
There is nothing missing.
Everything is absolutely
impacted into your system.
You are made of the everything
that you've been seeking.
And the fact that we
live in a culture that
has us so obsessed and
externally oriented
with our power, to the
drugs or the surgeries
or whatever it is that's going
to fix whatever is going on,
is criminal.
It's time for us to just
shape shift this one
person at a time.
It's time for us to just take it
back and do something with it.
Now, we have to be
responsible stewards.
So what I don't
want is for someone
who's on a few medications
to go home and chuck them
out the window
because Dr. Sue said
we don't need this anymore.
And no, there's a way
to regulate the system
and to shift this in
a responsible fashion.
So of course, be
smart about this.
But I do want to infuse the idea
into us once again that we are
made of everything that exists.
And I'm going to
share that with you.
So that inherently
gives us the reality
to operate from that we
have the capacity to do,
to achieve, to accomplish,
to experience anything
that we so choose.
One of the things that I find
are the greatest limitations
is that we have not been
told the things that
are available for us to
even set our sights on.
We are living in a
limited possibility world.
So thinking positive is not
even going to do the trick.
And I'm going to explain
what I mean by that.
We are currently
living in a world that
now thinks that it's time
for us to think positive
if we want to think positive
and have a positive effect
and raise our vibrational
frequency so that we
can self-heal.
I want you to know
that I've been working
with people for 30 years.
And when they get
on the bandwagon,
like getting religion
and saying, (DEEPER TONE)
I'm just going to
think positive,
and when my wife
thinks negative,
I'm not going to
let her, I'm just
going to tell her to turn it
around and think differently,
it's like, whoa, time
out, because if we
do that, we end up bypassing
authentic vibrational
frequencies that
are essential for us
to integrate into the system.
To embrace every single
vibrational frequency that we
are is what creates wholeness.
It's not about cutting half
of the emotional states out
of the picture and
thinking that if I only
live in these positive
emotional states,
I'm going to raise my vibration.
You will raise your vibration,
but you will not heal.
You won't heal necessarily.
And if you do, it
won't be sustainable
because you're not
creating wholeness.
You're creating conditionality.
And the more you are obsessed
with only ever being positive,
just as an example,
the more you will
be afraid of anything
negative that you've
deemed as negative coming along
and having an impact on you.
And so, again, you
become more conditional
and try to control your
environment so that you're
sure that you're
able to stay positive
no matter what goes on this day.
Do you follow?
So it's not about
only sticking around
positive thoughts or positive
people or positive things.
Although, of course,
that's a great idea.
But there's something
deeper that I really
want us to understand because
we are awakening to the fact
that we have the capacity to
have an outcome because of how
we intend our life to go.
We are awakening
to the idea that I
have some say over my health
and my wholeness and my life
experience and my perception
of what's possible.
I have free will.
And I can use that
free will to generate
a different outcome
than, perhaps,
previously I felt
empowered to do.
So the whole idea is, how
do I become more empowered?
How do I become more
empowered than I was before?
As we are empowering,
as we are awakening
to this empowered state,
it becomes essential
that we utilize our
faculties in a way that
truly is going to give us the
outcome that we're looking for.
Do you follow?
So that's part of
what I want to share.
So I want to see if I have a--
I don't think I have
one of these images
here, so I'm just going
to describe it to you.
I want you to think
about your brain
with a trapdoor in the middle.
And above the trapdoor
is your conscious mind.
And below the trapdoor
is your subconscious.
And this trapdoor is
supposed to remain open
so that when you decide that
it's time to relax, you relax.
And when you decide that
it's time to be loving,
you're able to be loving.
When you don't have
to be doing something,
your body automatically
turns its energies
toward healing and filtering
and cleansing and replenishing
and rejuvenating, et cetera.
And so when that trapdoor
is open, all systems go.
Now, what happens is,
when we see a bear,
that message gets sent into
the cortex above the trapdoor.
And then it gets shot back
into an area called memory.
And it looks up, what is "bear"?
What does that mean?
So it looks up "bear" in
this file storage room.
And it says, run for
your life, basically, OK?
And so you take off running.
So when the bear goes away, you
look, you see the bear is gone.
And that message
goes into the cortex
and goes to this area
called subconscious memory.
And it goes to the
file storage room.
And you look up under
"BG" for "bear gone."
And it says, exhale, relax.
Everything's OK.
That message then gets shot
down through the trapdoor
into the body, and
your body relaxes.
Do you follow?
So messages go from the
cortex down here, boom.
This is how the
nervous system works.
So if 10 bears are
coming at the same time,
that message is getting
shot back into memory.
10 bears, it's
run for your life,
run for your life.
The message goes down
through the trapdoor.
It says, emergency,
emergency, emergency.
And it can be so
overwhelming to the system
that the trapdoor slams shut.
And the last message that
got through was emergency.
Do you follow?
So we're going to
learn a technique today
to open this trapdoor so
that you have the capacity
to relax when the bears are
actually gone because when
that trapdoor slams shut and the
last message that got through
was emergency, your body
is continuing to function
in emergency mode even
though you go on vacation
and you can't relax.
You go on the weekend, and
your mind is constantly
going because it's
trying to identify, what
is it, what is it, what is it?
Where's the bear?
I feel it.
I sense that there's a bear, OK?
Now I'm going to tell you, from
a quantum science standpoint,
this whole thing from
another direction
because I really want
you to understand
what's really going on here.
But this is tangible
nervous system stuff.
And it's important to know
because our culture is obsessed
with learning about
the brain and learning
about neuro this or neuro that.
We were on a panel
yesterday and said
that if you say the word
"neuro" before anything,
everybody's interested
in listening and learning
about it.
You say the word "quantum,"
the same thing is true.
So I'm going to do both,
OK, not for those reasons,
but just because it's what's up.
It's what's real.
It's what's true.
But I want us to understand
the role of the nervous system
relative to the quantum
being because you
can have an effect on your
nervous system [SNAPS]
like that, OK?
So if the last message that
got through the trapdoor
before it slammed
shut was emergency,
your system is operating
in emergency day and night,
day and night, in and out, week
after week, month after month,
year after year.
It never lets up because
the number one priority
for your system is survival.
And it is going to operate
on a survival basis.
And it will always deal with
the most life-threatening thing
first until it
goes to the second.
So if you have back pain
that is unrelenting,
that's not going
away, it might be
because there's
something else that's
in higher priority that
won't let your body go
to work on your back pain
because your back pain is not
life-threatening.
But maybe chemical
balance is, for instance.
Do you follow what I'm saying?
So if something's not
healing and something's not
moving or shifting in your
life, there's a reason.
And it's a quality reason.
And we can detect what
it is and work with it.
It is so imperative
that we don't just
start becoming apathetic
or think that it's always
going to be this way, or
my mother had this, too,
or my father was this way, and
here I am, it's my lot in life.
It's not the case.
That is not the case.
It's not what's going on.
And all we have to do is
learn a little bit more,
remember a little bit
more about who we are,
and learn about how
the system works
so that we can become
masterful at this in this life,
because we're supposed to be.
[LAUGHS] We're supposed to be.
It's not like you're asking
for something out there,
that you're just really
over the top, self-consumed,
and you're asking for too much.
These are the basic
things that are supposed
to be existing in
our systems because
of how we are designed, OK?
So we just haven't been
taught how to do that.
We just haven't been taught how.
So now we learn.
All right, so in this we have
to get the trapdoor open.
Make sense?
The trapdoor has to get open
so that when we consciously
decide that it's safe
to relax, we relax.
And when we consciously
decide that you'd
love to be innovative
and creative
and come up with new ideas and
a plan for your life and a path
and carve it out and
have a sense of self
and know what you're
here for and what you're
doing, that when we choose
to direct our attention
to such things, that they
actually become obvious to us
and we have answers.
And we can stay in emotion
and pick up momentum and have
the life experience that
we want to have personally
and make a contribution to
humanity at the same time,
because they are one
and the same, actually.
There's only one of us
here, as quantum science
would have us understand.
And it's you.
And so, you know, when
my linear mind started
landing on that years ago, it
was like, well, which one of us
is it?
Which one of us
is it that's here?
Because I feel like I'm here.
Do you feel like you're here?
Woo.
And the answer is, yes.
And it's so confusing
until it's not.
And it doesn't need
to be confusing.
It needs to be inspiring to us.
So get this.
There's only one
thing happening here.
And it is good.
It is in your favor.
There is only one
thing happening.
And it's consciousness
is awakening through you.
And you volunteered to
come here onto the frontier
so that you can play a
role in exactly that.
You are here working on
certain vibrational frequencies
of consciousness itself.
Maybe it's courage.
Maybe it's forgiveness.
Maybe it's self-love.
Maybe it's adventure.
Maybe it's joy.
What I know for
sure is that it all
boils down to a
greater sense of love
than has ever been experienced
before, because in all--
and I'm going to start to move
into the quantum conversation
piece of this.
But I just want
you to understand
that the nervous system
does play a role.
So neuroscience and quantum
science are so intertwined,
they really shouldn't
be studied separately.
But what it does is
it forces us to begin
to observe that the nervous
system is actually functioning
very differently than we
thought it was when we thought
that the only
thing that was real
was the stuff that we
could go into a cadaver lab
and dissect out of
the human system,
that that's what was tangible
and real and physical.
So what we're now
doing is recognizing
that our definition of physical,
pff, doesn't work anymore.
It's a continuum.
That energy all the way to
physicality, it's all energy.
It's just a spectrum of energy.
And we're supposed to have
access to the full spectrum.
It's not two separate worlds.
It's not the invisible,
energetic world
and the physical,
tangible world.
There is actually
a world in between
that merges the
whole thing together.
And so people that
can see auras,
myself included, people
that can see energy or feel
or sense or perceive,
the empath that is here,
is living in between these
worlds and feeling frustrated
and a little frightened at times
because they feel and sense
and perceive things that
nobody else is validating.
And so they start to
wobble and wonder,
well, who the heck am I?
What's going on here?
And what is real?
And so it's time for us
to bridge these worlds
and to meld it all together
back into the continuum
so that we do not
experience ourselves
as a limited, individual,
separate self, because it's not
true.
And the fact that we've been
living inside of that lie
is what's causing
us so much pain.
In fact, it's actually what
shuts down the nervous system
faster than anything.
In other words, it's the biggest
bear that you've ever met--
the biggest bear of the
bears that we've been
having this conversation with.
It's the thing that slams
shut the trapdoor faster
than anything else in
your life because it's
this inherent sentence.
It's like a death sentence.
It's like a jail sentence that
is constantly looming over you.
And it's for a crime
you didn't commit.
It's for something that isn't
even true, that doesn't exist.
But it's something
that we've bitten
into because consciousness
was only developing
as fast as it could develop.
And you came here to
awaken to yourself
as the conscious
creator that you are,
not to have it handed to
you on a silver spoon, OK?
So you're in the process
of that discovery.
And in that, you accentuate
your personal empowerment
because you're discovering
it on your own.
And because you're accentuating
your personal empowerment,
you are bringing to
the third dimension
a level of consciousness
that is absolutely required
for wholeness to exist here in
the third dimension on planet
Earth.
We are evolving consciously
from a three-dimensional being
to a fourth-dimensional being.
And love is the key.
Love is the fourth
dimensional energy
that we are evolving into.
So as we develop a greater
sense of self, which is not
just self-esteem, it's
really like, until we start
to recognize who we really
are, what we really are,
it's really impossible
to become that.
Does that make sense?
If I think of myself
as a separate self
and I'm trying to heal,
but my healing would happen
automatically if I knew myself
as not separate but part
of a grand, great
energy field, a greater
degree of consciousness,
a big bandwidth of unity
consciousness, if I
knew that to be true,
then healing on
the physical level
would happen so
much more easily.
Does that make sense yet?
Are we tracking along here?
Because I'm going to
show you some things
that I think will
make it easier,
as well, some simple
drawings to just, like,
let's break this
down and make it
[SNAPS] doable for ourselves.
So in the process of that, once
we start to recognize ourselves
as multidimensional beings,
not just three-dimension,
but many more than that, once
I start to recognize myself
as a stream of energy
rather than a bubble,
a separate self like a bubble--
OK, if you put pressure on
a bubble, what does it do?
It pops.
If you put pressure on a
stream, what does it do?
It keeps on moving,
and it picks up power.
Think about it.
You're watering your flowers
outside, garden hose.
Shhh.
You see some flowers over there.
You try to get the hose to
get the water over there.
It doesn't work.
So what do you do?
You put your thumb over
the end of the garden hose.
Anybody do garden
hose around here?
All right, I grew up
on a farm, so I'm all
about this kind of stuff.
All right, so you put your
thumb over the garden hose,
and the aperture gets smaller.
Shh, the same
amount of water now
goes four times further just
because you're putting pressure
on it.
Well, that's how we're
supposed to be operating.
When we put the squeeze of our
own mental focus onto anything,
it becomes intensified.
When you put the squeeze
of your own mental focus
onto the stream of
consciousness that you are,
it picks up potency.
You pick up potency.
You pick up power.
And that's what I want
you to know yourselves as.
There is no such thing as
pressure that's supposed
to make you pop, because it
would only make you pop--
implode or explode--
if you were perceiving
yourself as a separate entity.
(DEEPER TONE) I
got to do all this.
It's all up to me.
No one can help me.
I'm the only one.
Ah, buh, burden, pop.
OK?
You got it?
I know this from experience, OK?
And that pre-popping state
for me was migraine headaches.
It was maintaining a scoliosis
in my body that I was born with
and stress levels so high that,
as a practicing clinician,
I would have to sleep at
lunchtime so that I could
handle my afternoon patients.
That's how intense I was, OK?
All because I saw myself
as a separate self,
even though I grew up in
a quantum conversation.
It's one thing, have you
noticed, to talk about it.
And it's a different thing
to, have you noticed,
embody it, right?
So that's why this is
all about embodiment.
So the energy codes,
which I teach,
which is the book that
is coming out March 19,
is all about codifying how
to recognize that you are not
a separate self, that
the essential self is
a stream of energy.
You are stream of consciousness.
And it's all about how to embody
that truth rather than just
intellectualize it, rather
than just talk about it.
So what would happen for me
is I could go to my clinic
and help patients
with these ideas.
And if they happen to open
their hearts and drop into it,
they would heal.
But I was so in my head
about teaching the stuff
that I had grown up
with, do you follow,
that I was the one that--
I could help them heal their
migraine headaches [LAUGHS]
when I could get out
of bed, when I didn't
have a headache of my own.
So I started
thinking, OK, Sue, you
need to listen really
closely when you're
talking to these patients
that are healing.
You need to hear
what's going on here.
And actually, it is because
of the patients who came to me
and what I heard myself
sharing with them--
particularly after an event
that happened in my life
that I'll take a few minutes
and share with you because it's
very relevant to
where we're going, OK?
But what I started
hearing myself say to them
was how I recognized
that they were
coming so that I could heal.
And then as I healed and shared
that information with them,
they would heal.
And then more people would come.
And different people would come.
And I would heal
in different ways
because I was listening to what
was happening in this exchange.
And I started to
recognize, it's just
me showing up to me to help
me heal so that I connect
with more people so that
more of the whole of us unify
and heal together,
which is just tapping
into a certain
vibrational frequency.
There is a vibrational
frequency that, when
we train the mind to
dial into that frequency,
healing happens.
It can't not because it's
the frequency of wholeness.
Do you follow?
It's very different than
going after symptoms
and diagnosing and
figuring out, what's
the treatment protocol
for this exact situation?
Now, some of that
can still happen.
But you better believe
that it's happening because
of a vibrational shift
in the systems at large,
in higher and higher
levels into the one system
that we all are representing.
OK, so the people in your
lives are representing parts
of your own consciousness.
And if there is a rub
there, it's medicine, OK?
It's medicine.
We learn in this dimension
through friction.
And let me just
say this, that you
are made of the highest
frequency energy that
exists in this dimension.
You are the highest.
The real you is the highest
vibrational frequency
in this dimension.
And I mentioned that I was going
to share with you an experience
that I had because it's relevant
to where I want to take you
today and send you home with
some ideas that are going
to be very effective for you
to change how your system is
operating.
And it has to do with the
stress level that I'm describing
and the migraine
headaches and not
being able to get out of bed.
And another stress in my life--
another relationship had ended,
and here's where we were.
And it was just like, I
was stressed to the max.
My mother had just passed.
She was my best friend.
I wasn't ready for that and
certainly didn't want it.
And it was just a tremendously
stressful time in my life.
And I was drawn to meditation.
And I went to meditation
prior to that.
I went out on my back deck
and asked the heavens,
I just said, OK, you
show me because I'm
doing everything I know to do.
And I'm really good at it.
And it's working, except
that I'm miserable inside.
So yeah, do you follow?
I mean, I'm not saying
I was good at it
just because I'm
[EXHALES] good at it.
It was like, no, I
was trying really
hard to do the right thing,
to be a good daughter,
to be a good sister, to be
a good citizen, a student,
a doctor, all this stuff.
And trying really hard
to be a good anything
is really exhausting.
Have you noticed that one?
All right, so what I didn't
know is that all I had to do
was be me more fully, and
everything would release.
But I didn't know
that at the time.
I was approaching it from
an intellectual perspective.
Perfectionism is
what that's called.
So I was drawn to meditation.
I sat down in meditation.
And of course, I'm sitting.
Am I sitting right?
I'm peeking out my
eyes all the time.
How do you breathe?
How do you do this thing?
And then I finally
just one day--
at another time I'll tell
you the details of this story
because it's really
funny and fascinating.
But I'll just cut to the chase
and say that at one point,
I decided to just sit down and
not care about doing it right
or doing the right thing
and just have it for myself,
to claim it.
And I tell you this because
it's imperative for you
to do the same.
You have to claim it for you,
that no one can do it for you.
And when you think that you
need something outside of you,
it starts to distract
and disperse you.
And when it distracts
and disperses you,
you become lessened.
You become weakened.
And you don't have the power
of the energy coming out
of the garden hose to
pierce through the veils
that you need to pierce through
in order to actually perceive
and experience yourself as
the multidimensional being
that you are.
Are you tracking with me?
Because I know I'm going fast.
Are we good?
OK, are you with me?
All right, so I sat
down in this meditation.
And they were chanting a chant
that I wasn't used to chanting,
so I had to really focus on it.
They were chanting
far too slowly
for a perfectionistic
person who was all about,
let's get this job done.
Let's go, go, go.
Hurry up, and meditate.
Ger.
Got to meditate.
Om, om, om.
OK, it was kind of
like that, you know?
[LAUGHTER]
It wasn't going to fly that day.
They were like,
it was beautiful.
It was slow motion.
It was all this different
world from the one that I was--
I would run down the hallway in
my clinic to get from room one
to room two to treat people,
to just be pa, pa, pa, pa, pa,
pa, pa.
It was like that.
And they were like,
(SLOWLY) ahh, you know?
The candles were lit.
The draperies were flowing.
The music was slowly unfolding.
It was om namah shivaya--
10 times slower than that, OK?
[LAUGHTER]
If we had more time
today, I'd show you
how slow the whole thing was.
But it was great, all right?
But there was a reason for it.
There was a reason
for it, because when
you slow the mind down and
you slow the breath down,
some things can unpack.
It can unload.
That rapid moving ceiling
fan that the mind is,
writing its stories
and wondering
if it's doing the right
thing good enough--
and here's your real self.
It's this flowing, blowing
in the candle, wind,
all that stuff, the draperies.
It's that.
That's the vibrational
frequency of you versus that.
Do you follow?
But we're in this box
that's created by this.
And so we have to slow
the mind down in order
to get in tandem with it
and get up and out and free.
And so that's what
happened for me that day.
It was om namah
shivaya, these tones
that actually move the
energy through the body
in a specific pattern,
slowing the mind down because
of breathing so slow.
And boom.
I woke up as this.
I woke up right here.
I could see the Earth beneath
me about this big around.
And I was embedded into it up to
what would have been my knees.
I could see 360
degrees around me
in every direction in a
light so brilliantly bright,
it was 10 times brighter
than the brightest day
in the desert I had ever seen.
And I was completely at home.
I had been there forever.
I had never left, is
how much I knew it.
And I knew that I was
always going to be there
and that I could direct
my focus in any fashion
and go into multiple
experiences.
But what I knew was
that this glorious light
was becoming love as it
passed through this system.
I was me, but I wasn't
in a physical body.
I was literally a
golden ray of light.
I had never seen a
picture like this.
I had never seen
anything like this.
It blew my circuits to
be in this experience,
to see a marble-sized
Earth beneath me
and to be suspended
there, totally knowing
that this is the truth.
And in that true moment, I knew
that every single one of us
was this.
And I had free will because
I could take a big breath
or a little breath.
And if I took a big breath,
this beautiful pink iridescent,
translucent horizon, a
blanket of love itself,
would rise up like this,
would just raise up.
And as I would exhale,
ah, it would just
fall down so gracefully.
It was so immense.
Just try to imagine
the most distant vista
that you've ever seen,
as far as you could see,
in every direction
seeing that way,
and this beautiful
pink iridescent
blanket of consciousness
rising and falling.
And what I knew was that
light was becoming love.
And that it was going
through me into this planet,
into this dimension
is what it was.
I was anchored
multidimensionally at the time.
And so I knew that this is
what everyone of us was.
And the degree to which
we allow our breath
to happen without impedance,
without any kind of distraction
or dispersal, that we are
allowing light to become love
and coming here to
where we are here
in this dimension
with our focus.
Let me just say
that in that moment,
the most important
thing would be I
knew that there was
nothing missing.
There was nothing broken.
And there was nothing wrong.
There was nowhere to
go, nothing to become.
That is child's play
compared to what was.
It was immense and magnificent
and completely exalted.
And so this is who you are.
That is what you are.
And for us to get caught
up in this earthly splat
is a very common thing.
And that's where most
people are living.
In fact, in the Conscious Life's
take on life's experience,
we're trying to pull
that back together again.
But in the splat, our mind
goes one way, our breath goes
another, our body goes another.
And we don't have our
faculties together at all.
And in that splat, we
develop a personality.
We develop a level of engagement
way out there on the perimeter.
And it has nothing to
do with who we are.
It has everything to do with the
byproduct of our landing here.
Does that make sense?
So we come up
attached to the mind.
And in that attachment
to the mind,
everything that we experience
is based in duality
because the mind's job is
to see the distinctions
and the differences in things.
And we live in our heads.
And we're attached to the mind.
And we think that's who we are.
And so we have this
dualistic experience of life
because we think
that's all there is.
And in that
dualistic experience,
we think there's a me and a you.
We think there's
a me and an other.
And that's part of the
duality that the mind alone
has to perceive.
So what we have to do is
pull the mind and the body
and the breath, which is spirit,
which is you, back together
again so that you can start
to use your faculties in a way
that they're designed to
be used in order for you
to have the life
that you can have.
Does that make sense?
Your whole being,
you've been operating
as a part of your
being, wondering
why you don't feel whole, OK?
So when someone comes
up to me and says,
you know, I feel just
completely inadequate,
I know they're
attached to their mind,
or they couldn't feel that way.
It's the only way
that you can feel
inadequate,
insufficient, in some way
missing, lacking,
broken, something.
Do you follow?
It's the only way, is
that if you're identifying
with only a part of
who you are, then
you're naturally going
to feel that way.
So the key is, we
got to change that.
We have to pull the
mind back onto the body
and let the breaths start to
weave them together again,
because they're
all just energies.
And this is what I
really want you to get,
that you are this ray of light.
You are multiple energies that
are coming to this dimension,
to further consciousness on
the frontier of consciousness
itself.
So you are the absolute
unwavering wholeness
that's coming into the
dualistic experience
to bring wholeness to it.
But we start seeking
wholeness from out there.
And we're never going to find
it because that's actually
a reflection of what
we've become aware of.
That's what the outer world is.
And this is what quantum
science is showing us,
that our life experience
is a reflection
of our own consciousness.
That's it.
So we have to pull our
consciousness back together
and ground it and integrate it.
And when we ground
it and integrate it,
it becomes quite
possible for you
to perceive very
differently than you're
able to perceive when
you're identified
as a single
bandwidth of energies
called the mind field, the
field of the mental self, OK?
So let me just explain
a little bit about this.
First, let me say that
we're going to take this out
of the picture for
a moment and just
look at ourselves as
physical human beings
here in the physical
dimension, OK?
You're actually an energy being
having an energetic experience
in an energetic world,
but on the spectrum
of the energetic world that we
call the physical dimension.
Is that it?
OK.
You know how people
will say, are you
a physical being having
a spiritual experience
occasionally?
Or are you a spiritual being
having a physical experience?
And everybody says, oh, I want
to be a spiritual being having
a physical experience.
But I want to invite you into
being a spiritual being having
a spiritual experience--
do you follow--
all the time.
Is that OK?
Right, because energy
is what you are.
Everything in the whole
of the manifest world
is energy just coming into form.
It's just energy compressing
into different vibrational
frequencies.
And so you, on the way here
to the physical dimension,
you are this, this
unified field of energy,
this green energy that goes out
and gets more and more subtle.
It goes on forever.
So somebody standing
right here would
have the same green
energies coming
into the red, the blue, the
purple, into the physical body.
And then it comes out
the other-- you follow?
It's in this way that
we're all connected.
This goes underneath
here and goes on forever.
And every so often, there's
a little compression
of the energy field that
becomes a stream, a flowing
stream of consciousness
that is a you or a you
or a you or a you or a you.
Do you follow this?
All right, we're
a field of energy.
And the field has compressions
on it, quickenings if you will.
And that quickening
causes the energy
to fold over on itself enough
that we have self-awareness
and that we become
a state of being.
That's a conversation
for a deeper time when
we have more time to unpack it.
Don't think you
have to understand
that in order to
do the practices
I'm going to share
with you today.
But let's just look
at it this way.
Formless energy, spiritual body
energies, compress and compress
and compress and compress.
This is the law of physics,
that physical matter is just
compressed energy.
This is physical matter
that's compressed energy.
This thing, this poster, this
chair that you're sitting on,
the computer monitor that
you're watching at this time,
it's all just compressed energy.
That's all that's going on here.
Everything is
energy-- everything.
No exceptions.
There are no exceptions to that.
So when you start looking at
it that way, it's like, wow.
So the more subtle form of
energy I can get in touch with,
the more masterful I become
at this physical life.
Does that make sense?
If I can become a person who is
aware of the subtle energies,
then I'm aware of
the energy that's
in the trees, the one that's
in the mountains, the one that
is streaming down
the rivers, that I'm
aware of that version of me.
That's how we are all connected.
Do we follow?
So this subtle energy, shoo,
it goes through everything.
It's what is.
It's the presence
of is-ness, OK?
Whoa, we won't go there.
But do you follow
what I'm saying?
It gets deep pretty fast.
But I just want you
to get, hey, you're
made of energy on subtle, less
subtle, less subtle, less,
less, less, less,
less, less, boom, OK?
We grew up in a world that
said, this is what's real.
Do you follow?
Science was like, nope.
See, this is what's
real, right here.
And we're saying, mm.
Quantum science is saying,
no, no, no, no, that's
the caboose on the train, folks.
That's the caboose on the train.
You are here.
This isn't you.
This is something you created.
This is you.
And you are compressing,
compressing,
compressing, compressing
yourself to come here to
this physical dimension, OK?
So after my big awakening
like this, days later--
only days later--
I had an experience of becoming.
The moment that I
chose to become,
it was as if the words
were spoken, yes, I am.
It was as if some voice of God--
it was a vibrational frequency.
But it wasn't a
person saying it.
It was the vibrational
frequency that
happens when you start
compressing the unified field.
Vibrations start to occur.
Sounds start to happen, which
is why these sacred texts say,
in the beginning,
there was the word, OK?
It's a sound vibration.
And the word was
whatever the word was.
But it's a big word, OK?
All right, so you're compressing
and compressing and compressing
and coming here.
Your objective is to
get from here, boom,
to come all the way here.
So here we are, here in
the physical dimension,
seeking spirituality,
seeking that.
And you're not going to find
it, because you're made of it.
It's behind your eyes.
It's who you are already.
Your objective is to seek how
to become completely here.
Then you'll be free
and illuminate to this.
That's what happened
to me that day.
I quickened for myself for the
first time in such a manner
that it completed the job.
It got me here.
And boom, the energy,
which I'm going
to share with you
how that works,
the energy came together
in such a fashion
that this rising energy which
I'm about to describe for you
was able to rise
in such a fashion
that my third eye could open.
The energy has to be stable.
Unless it's induced by a
drug or some external source,
the body won't
allow your third eye
to open until the foundation
underneath it is stable.
Otherwise, you can't
properly interpret
what you're perceiving,
and it becomes a bad trip.
Do you follow?
And that's where the
bad trips of the '60s
came from with the
psychotropic drugs.
It was because there were
not the circuits in place
to integrate and to metabolize
what you were able to perceive.
It was too much.
It was overwhelming
to the system.
So people would
be writhing around
in so much pain or
freaked out, et cetera.
And it doesn't have
to be that way.
In fact, it's not
supposed to be that way.
We're supposed to be living
culturally in such a fashion
that we have the circuitry in
place to perceive ourselves
as the multidimensional
being that we are.
And let me explain that to you.
So here we are.
This is just what exists here
at the bottom of this, right?
This is a blown up version of
it so you can see it better.
So you-- you--
come here.
So this is you, the real you.
You're coming here
into this dimension.
So when people
say, when you keep
walking around talking
about your higher self,
you're never going to be
your higher self if you keep
talking about your higher self.
You follow?
That's like, my name is Sue.
But if I say, you
know, I'm going
to go take Sue to lunch today--
do you follow?
I'm going to let
Sue rest tonight.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, what about me?
Right?
You follow?
You can't leave you
out of the equation.
You are your higher--
be your higher
self, for goodness sakes, OK?
So in my coursework,
I walk you through how
to do this more so
than I can possibly
pack in to this
conversation, because today I
want to take you straight into
some amazing conversation.
How do I start?
I want you to have a start with
this before we leave today.
But I want you to
get, this is you.
And you're coming down here to
have this physical experience.
This is the real you.
You're coming into this
world to have an experience.
You're made of wholeness.
And your job is to come in here
and remember that while you're
here, because when you do,
you bring consciousness
to this dimension.
You bring the
consciousness of wholeness.
Unity consciousness is
wholeness consciousness.
You follow?
We're trying to
connect with people
from the splattered state
that we are and call
it unity consciousness.
And we're all afraid because
when you're out here operat--
remember the splat, where
the body goes one way,
the mind goes one way, and
the breath goes another
and we develop this personality,
this engaging self out here
on the perimeter?
When we talk about
unity consciousness,
yes, that's what I need.
I need to feel unified.
I need to feel
connected to others
because I feel so alone because
I'm attached to my mind,
but never mind that.
You follow?
Do you follow what I'm saying?
So we, attached
to our minds, try
to connect to other
people who are also
attached to their minds.
And we feel better
for a little bit.
But then underneath it,
there's this undertone of,
(DEEPER TONE) I need something
from you in order to be whole.
Do you follow?
So everything becomes a
(DEEPER TONE) bargaining
and a maneuvering and
this kind of deal-striking
so that we can have another
false sense of self,
a false sense of wholeness,
a false sense of unity.
Do you follow?
We have to come
home to ourselves
and start operating
from this place of unity
and then move into
our relationships
from a position of sharing
rather than a position
of bargaining if we ever want
to truly experience ourselves
as this.
Got it?
OK?
So first things
first, it doesn't
mean that we're not
supposed to connect
with people around the world.
You bet we do.
And doing that in the
meantime while we're
learning how to
build the circuitry
to perceive who we actually
are all at the same time
is a groovy thing.
It's fine to do both.
You don't have to
accomplish one 100%
before you get into working with
other people in this manner.
But I just don't want us to
leave out of the equation
the importance of finding
your own wholeness ultimately
as you're engaging with other
people for the purpose of unity
consciousness around the planet.
You follow?
Because it will not be
what you seek for it to be.
It cannot be what you seek
for it to be until we become
the very vibration
that we're seeking,
until we become that which
we are looking for, OK?
So let me just share that
that is you to drop into this.
So let's say that's
you now, coming here.
You drop in, and you
hit as the energy.
So formally, I would
have and have had
this conversation like this.
Here's how I would have said it.
Here you are.
An energy comes
down into your body.
And it hits the Earth.
And it rises up
through your body.
And it comes out the
top of your head.
And it cycles around
the outside of you
and recycles and
recycles and recycles.
And your objective is to
allow the pure energy that's
coming into you to hit the Earth
and rise back up through you as
purely as it descended down in.
You want it to rise up
through you without you
messing with it, OK?
So here's what happens.
When this energy
rises back up, if you
don't have the
circuitry in place
to allow it to rise
in its purest form,
because it's moving up through
this filtering system which
we call the chakra
system, if you
don't have the energies of
your second chakra connected
to the energies of
your third chakra,
then there is a problem there.
There's a lack of
communication between the two.
So that rising energy has
to go around the obstacles.
And hopefully you can see that.
And as it goes around the gaps
where there is no circuitry,
the energy picks up a wobble.
And as it picks up a wobble,
this energy field here,
this toric field which
is a measurable thing--
and the Institute of HeartMath
depicts this stronger one
inside at the heart
center, as well--
that this energy field
starts to become distorted.
Can you see how
that would happen?
The wobble creates a distortion.
Now here you are,
conscious being,
looking out through that
distorted energy field.
And you see a distorted reality.
It's presenting back
to you a reflection
of your own
consciousness rising.
Does that make sense?
OK, so these chakras are
levels of consciousness.
They're ways of being able to
think and perceive and behave
and exchange.
That's what they are.
That's how I'm using them
because, yes, they correlate
to a part of your body, you bet.
And they correlate to musical
notes and colors, you bet.
All of it is important.
And in this moment,
I'm just saying
I'm speaking to one aspect
of it, another aspect, which
is that it's a level
of your consciousness
that's being represented here.
So if you don't have
your belongingness, which
is your root chakra--
this is my gig.
I know that this is who I am.
This is my gig.
I'm coming here to
have my experience.
I'm not here to fit
into your world.
I'm here creating and generating
a life experience of love
for everyone involved,
that kind of thing, right?
And if that's not in place,
then my second chakra
is likely to have a wobble to
it, which is, how in the world
do I engage in relationship
with time or space or money
or other people?
How do I have a
relationship that
works if my root
isn't even working,
if I'm wobbly at that level?
And then how do I
ever have a sense
of who I really am as this
cosmic, universal being?
How can I ever have
a perception of that
when I'm obsessed with surviving
the bears that are in my life?
You're tracking?
Third chakra energy,
how do I ever
get to unconditional
divine love when
I'm freaking out all the time?
It's never going to happen.
Yeah, I love you,
only if you make
me feel safe, only if you
behave a certain way so
that I feel OK.
You get it?
So one's a byproduct of
another of another of another.
OK, so now that's how I used
to talk about the conversation,
that you have energy coming down
through your body, et cetera.
But what I really want to
get is just cut to the chase
and say you are the energy
that is coming here.
You are the energy.
You are this.
You don't have it running
through your body.
That's the world of separation
that starts the whole mess
that we're living in.
We don't think that we are it.
We think we have it
or we're missing it
or we're looking for it.
And it's a big,
fat waste of time.
You following what I'm saying?
You are that which you
have been seeking, OK?
You're the spirit coming in.
You're landing in the
physical dimension.
And you're rising again.
Here's the beautiful part.
The degree of circuits that you
have in place will determine
the momentum-- remember
the garden hose--
they will determine
the momentum that this
rises with, the power.
And the higher this goes,
the bigger the toric field.
Can you understand that?
Can you get that?
Our objective is to
learn how to awaken
above our primitive brain,
because if we can awaken
above our primitive
brain into the high brain
centers where
creatorship lives, then
we can operate as
creator in command
of this physical dimension.
Does that track?
You got it?
So imagine it this way.
You come down.
You've got the
circuits in place.
There's a subtle toric field
here, bigger than this one.
You get more circuitry in place.
The toric field gets
bigger until pretty soon
your toric field is
incorporating your higher self.
Imagine how big your
toric field flow
would be if you were in
the state of allowing
these high frequency energies
to be part of the mix.
Capiche?
OK?
So the Christ in consciousness,
the Buddha consciousness,
they're right in here.
The ascended master
consciousness,
the archangelic consciousness,
they're all right in here.
So get that we have already
accessed the ability
to be up in here.
And a few thousand
years ago, we were
invited to do the same thing.
You follow?
You can do all this and more.
Anyone can be Buddha.
Do those words sound
familiar to you?
You bet they sound
familiar to you.
It's an invitation that was
extended over 2,000 years ago.
And we're still
warming up to the idea.
We're still, you know, (DEEPER
TONE) well, I don't know.
Still separate.
No, I don't think so.
I don't think I'm going to
accept that invitation--
because there's
something seated in us
in very big ways that puts a
lot of fear into the mix, right?
And that's inherited
into your own DNA
because things were
shut down, et cetera.
But it's all perfect.
It's by divine design
because you came here
to awaken to yourself as
your magnificent creatorship
that you are--
creator, you follow?
Creation, the action of
continually creating.
And those are the three
principles that the Vedic
literature is all based on.
The whole Eastern culture
is about the observer,
the observed, and the constant
action of observing, right?
The creator, the creation, and
the constant recreation that's
happening.
So it's right here.
It's right here in front of us.
And I bring this to you
from a place of experience
and from a place of humble
knowing that we bump up
against our own
deep cellular memory
and our deep cellular
belief systems
when we start speaking
about this stuff.
And we absolutely have to.
We have to.
We have to allow it to be OK.
We have to allow it
to be the thing that
is going to make us whole again,
allow us to be embodied fully
as the spirit being energy.
You know, I can talk about
it as the highest frequency
energy being, light being.
Or I can talk about
it in spiritual terms.
But the key is for us to
realize that we're all
talking about the same thing.
And it's a stretch
for science, you bet.
And you know what?
Quantum science is a stretch
for spirituality because quantum
science is proving that we
cannot separate ourselves from
God.
We can't.
You just can't.
There's a place where you
just have to say, OK, got it.
I'm that.
Got it.
You follow?
And that, I go into churches
and speak about this.
And they're like,
(HESITATINGLY) OK, got it, yeah.
But when you can bring the
evidence of the studies,
at some point we have to say,
OK, I can be a part of that.
And that's about as
far as we can get.
And that's totally cool.
That's all I'm inviting us to
do is just to allow yourselves
to be a little bigger
than you thought you were,
because you're not
this separate entity.
So everybody gets this?
You are that which is rising.
And the key is, can
you allow the things
in your life that
are causing friction
to be how the guidance is
occurring for you to create
the ability to rise
higher without splatting
on the circumstances
of your daily life?
That's the key.
Can you do that?
Can you translate it that way?
Or is the family situation
or the financial situation
or the health considerations,
does it have a hold of you?
Or are you using it
to your advantage?
And the invitation is
obviously the latter.
So I have this little
concept that I reference
as the bus stop conversation.
And it's a soul
contracts kind of thing.
And I just want to
infuse it in here
because I get so much feedback
from people around the world
all the time, emails
coming in, about how just
understanding this perspective
changed their lives so
dramatically.
And it's just a
conceptual thing.
It's a conceptual release
of embracing everything
that's happening in your life.
So in that, it has to do with
you going to the bus stop
to catch the bus
to come to Earth.
OK, you thought you got
here from the stork.
[LAUGHTER]
But you didn't.
It was the bus.
OK, if you had the
little stork idea going
and it was really sweet,
I'm sorry to blow it.
You came here by a bus, OK?
So obviously it's
a symbolic analogy.
And it's about you
coming to the bus stop
and making arrangements
for the things
that you're going to need to
experience while you're here
on Earth in order to further
your own consciousness,
in order for you to awaken
in the specific vibrational
frequencies that you are
interested in animating.
You're here to wake up courage.
Or you're here to wake up
the attributes of liberty
or of unconditionality or your
own divinity or forgiveness,
per se.
So an example, of
course, that I use often
is you go to the bus stop.
You say, you know, on
my way out last time--
well, basically somebody
says, what are you here for?
What are you going
in for, right?
And somebody at the bus
stop says, you know,
I've been there before.
It's really awesome.
And on my way out, just
at the last minute,
I did this thing that
they call forgiveness.
And it really just felt so good.
It was like, all of a sudden
I was free right there
in the middle of it.
And so I'm going back.
And this time I'm going to
have a bigger shot of that.
I'm going in for a
level 10 of forgiveness.
And so everybody else at the
bus stop is like, whoa, awesome.
So how are you going to do that?
And you basically
say, I don't know.
I guess somebody is going to
have to do something that's,
like, nearly unforgivable.
And then I'm going to live
with that as a separate self.
I'm going to be burdened with
the weight of not forgiving
them, the unforgiveness.
And it's going to
affect my health.
And it's going to affect the joy
in my life and my relationships
and my attitude, et cetera, so
long that I'm going to get down
the road about 20 years or so,
and I'm going to be so tired
and beat up for having lived
that way that I'm going to just
reach inside myself and
find some part of myself
that I never knew existed
and pull it up and out
and forgive this situation
because it's just not worth it.
You know, it's just not
worth the compromise
that it's creating in my life.
And in that moment,
I'm going to, boom,
I'm going to be liberated.
I'm going to have it my way.
All this energy is going
to rush into my system,
because when we judge
something as wrong,
we draw density on
the energy field.
And we contract in a
way that's inappropriate
for the vibrational bandwidth.
Each of these are different
vibrational frequencies.
And you're supposed to be
cultivating your ability
to perceive every one of these
frequencies and masterfully
work with them.
But they are, as a default
mechanism until you wake up,
they're designed to operate as
a feedback mechanism for you.
So there's great benefit,
and it's a fail-proof system.
It's going to work.
So either your physical
health is going to fail,
your mental health and
well-being is going to fail,
your emotional health and
because of a lack of circuitry.
So the circuitry I'm
speaking about here
that has to be in place to
keep the wobble out of the mix
is the same circuitry
that happens here.
This is through circuitry that
we get all the way in, right?
To stay conscious, we have to
have consciousness circuits.
So the circuits are both
electromagnetic energy,
and then they become
neuro circuitry.
So they're quantum circuits.
And then they're neuro
circuits, all right?
So I'll come back to that.
But recognize that this
is what's happening,
that the moment that
you decide something
shouldn't have happened, you
draw a barrier between you
and what you get to land.
So the rest of you
that's trying to come in
hits this density, this
gunk in the energy field.
That's my very sophisticated
terminology there.
It hits the gunk
in the energy field
and bounces back onto itself.
So these are parts of you,
certain vibrational frequencies
of you, that can
never drop in here.
They start coming in, and
they just stay elevated.
They stay up and out
of your system here
in the physical realm
because you don't yet
have the circuits to
vibrate at resonance so
that you can come
in here and wake up
to those aspects of life.
Are you tracking with me?
OK?
>> I'm having a problem
with the block idea.
>> OK.
>> So we decide at some point
that something shouldn't be
the way--
>> Shouldn't have happened.
>> --shouldn't have happened.
>> Boom.
>> And so that blocks
things from then any time.
>> So now this energy
can't get through this
because of a certain quality.
They never should have fired me.
That accident shouldn't
have happened, et cetera.
So at this state of at
the bus stop and I'm
asking, what do you want to
have happen, what are you
going in for, and you
say a level 20 or a level
10 of forgiveness,
I'm going in for that,
and then they say,
OK, how are you
going to do that, somebody is
going to have to do something
nearly unforgivable.
So give us an example.
So OK, somebody is going to have
to drink too much at happy hour
and get behind the wheel and
come across the center line
and hit my car going
down the highway
and take part of my family
and cripple me or something
along these lines, OK?
Could've been avoided.
I have every reason to be
devastated and completely angry
and all this stuff.
It's valid.
>> Right.
>> It's valid.
But if we can understand
that, as part of the bus stop,
I wanted a level 10
forgiveness, then, jahh, OK.
These are the kinds
of circumstances
that allow that to happen.
And we do have the choice
of awakening to the level 10
capacity for forgiveness so
that these types of things
don't have to happen in
order to get us there.
We can awaken.
And that's why we're
in this conversation,
so that we can proactively
awaken to the things
that we came here to awaken to
without having to live them out
in the physical as the
demonstration of, boom,
the bumper car effect
where you bump into this
and you bump into that
and you bump into this.
Pretty soon you figure out,
OK, so I'm bumping into this
and bumping into that.
Pretty soon you carve
your pathway out
of a process of elimination.
And we would really
like consciousness
to take us there without having
to do all the bumper cars.
Yes?
>> So when we have a trauma
or an experience happens,
and we create this blockage--
>> Yeah.
>> --how do we--
is it through forgiveness that
we can loosen it up and get rid
of it?
Or how do we get rid
of that blockage?
>> Yeah, so lots of ways.
We, of course, then want to know
how to get rid of the blockage.
But I first want
you to understand
that the blockage is actually
due to a lack of circuitry.
If I had the circuitry in place,
I wouldn't have the reactions
that I do to the things
that happen in my life
because we're having this
illuminating conversation.
If you walk out of
here and you recognize
that absolutely every single
thing that happens in my life
is in support of my own
awakening per my request
at the bus stop, then we don't
draw our judgmental conclusions
and shove these
things away or think
that they're bad or wrong.
We're embracing them
and accepting them.
Oh, my god, this
is so awakening me.
And if it keeps on happening,
then I'm attached to something.
And I'm supposed to let
go of that so that it
doesn't keep on happening.
And I'm supposed
to evolve myself.
And so what we're
doing is building
more circuitry in place so
that we can perceive this
from a higher bird's
eye view perspective,
from the perspective
of the bus stop itself.
And so--
>> So the way to build some
of the circuitry is to figure
out--
>> I haven't even begun to tell
you how to build the circuitry
yet, OK?
That's going to be the
whole last hour of our time
together, OK?
So fret not.
Like, (PANICKY)
wait, I don't want
to miss how to
build the circuits!
Yeah, let me catch this!
You bet.
There are multiple ways
to build the circuits.
I'm going to teach you
a massive way to get--
so this is a gap that collects
gunk because it's a gap.
There's no energy flowing
through that area.
It becomes, like, cesspooly.
And actually, it becomes a
magnetic attraction for you
to attract other experiences
into your life that
are of similar nature
until they build up so
much you can't miss it, OK?
So if you're walking around
saying, (ANGRILY) why
does this always happen to me?
[LAUGHTER]
Why me?
Why?
OK, if it's that,
there's some patterns
of gunk on the field that are
a magnetic draw so that you can
ultimately untangle this
idea and have energy flowing
through your system the way
that it's designed to flow,
because we're supposed to be
a transmuting machine here
on Earth.
We are this.
We come into this
physical dimension
to the cutting edge
of consciousness.
And we're supposed to take the
chaos of dissonant energies
and discordant energies and the
energies of dualistic thinking
and the greed and the fight
and the battle and the war
and all of this kind of
energy and turn it in,
metabolize it into
resonant energies,
because we're made of
wholeness, resonant energy.
So this is kind of like this
tiller, like a garden tiller.
It's, like, churning up
and churning up the soil
so that you can plant
a new seed in it.
That's what we're doing here.
This toric field is
constantly moving.
And the less gunk that's on the
field, the more efficient it
moves, et cetera.
So you're going to
learn some techniques
today that allow you to quicken
your energy, like putting
the thumb over the garden
hose to pick up the power,
to pick up the
power of descension,
descending yourself
as the highest
frequency available in
the third dimension.
You're descending yourself
into the third dimension
so that ascension
happens completely.
Think of it like this.
If you're hanging out
in the middle of a pool
and you go halfway down or
closer toward the bottom
and you hold your breath and
you're hanging out in the water
and then you're almost out of
breath, to get to the surface,
it's easier if you drop down,
push off from the surface.
You get to the surface
faster than if you
start trying to paddle your way
up to the surface of the water,
if you have something
to push off from.
So it's kind of like
that, if you just
imagine that what
needs to happen
is we have to drop in here so
that we can rise with power,
all right?
So we have to come in
here, build the circuitry
so that the momentum
that is rising
is not distorted or thwarted by
this idea that you might have
inherited or that you
developed early on in your life
or that you came in to even
work on in the first place,
an idea of insufficiency
or inadequacy in some way.
We have to get those things.
So I'm going to
teach you some things
rapid fire in our second hour.
I'm going to start
in about 10 minutes.
And we're going to have lots of
time to get into two or three
awesome practices that are
going to set you guys in motion
with doing this, OK?
So we get the big
picture here and here?
All right?
This is what's cooking.
Yeah.
>> You seem to prefer the
terminology of toric field
instead of auric field.
Do you have any--
>> I'm sorry, the toric field?
>> You seem to prefer the
terminology of toric field
instead of auric field.
>> Auric field, yeah.
Well, it is the auric field.
It is the auric field.
The question is, is it about the
toric field or the auric field?
Actually, this is
the auric field.
These are all the
different-- when
you take the aura
photographs out here,
they're photographing
the relationship
between these different
bandwidths of energy.
And they're showing
up as different colors
and as the Kirlian photography,
the computerized photography
that gets to happen for us
through this technology.
So the auric field is
this, and it is this.
So basically this is
a static snapshot.
This is showing you
vibrational values.
This is a higher
vibration than this--
higher, lesser, lesser, lesser,
denser, denser, grounded,
grounded, grounded,
grounded, OK?
So it's more heavier
anchoring qualities.
And so inside of each
of these bandwidths,
there is also-- like
the outside edge of this
has a higher frequency than
the inside edge of the red.
You follow?
So you have higher frequency
thoughts and lower frequency
thoughts.
You have higher
frequency emotions,
that's the blue bandwidth,
and lower frequency emotions.
And so this is how I started
speaking initially today.
I spoke about the
fact that we can't
cut out half of our emotional
experience and call it bad.
We ultimately have to
embrace all of them.
If we ever want to get through
this emotional bandwidth
of energies all the way
to the physical-- so
it's spiritual, mental,
emotional, etheric,
which is where the
chakra system resides.
It goes all the way
through to the other side.
And the chakras
are on top of that.
And the physical body
is on top of that.
So we want to come through
all these different bandwidths
of energy without interruption
if we want to get here fully.
But we get hung
up in the beliefs
and the emotional
reactions to those beliefs
and the hesitancies
that we come across.
So the whole idea is
I've got to get through.
I've got to get all
the way through.
Got to get all the way through.
So in that, if there are areas
that we don't have circuits
in place, we get hung up there.
And we keep recreating
those scenarios
so that we can wake up to
what that one is trying
to offer the whole system.
Does that makes sense?
So then another
snapshot of this is--
this outermost high frequency
energy here is this one.
The next one in is
the electric body that
moves inside of this whole.
This is considered
the ascension body.
And it's high frequency.
And we get into all this in my
coursework, level 1 and 2 and 3
and 4, if you want to
take that coursework.
The next one in is
chakra 10, which is here.
The next one in,
which is your legacy--
consciousness.
The next one up is
your soul purpose.
And then the next one
in is your life purpose.
And then we come right
into the heart center.
And then all of this blossoms
as a reflection of how
the light of all of
consciousness or creation
is anchored in the human heart.
And then we start unfolding
here in this dimension
in the discovery of that.
So it's a whole
journey that I walk you
through in a fantastic
fashion that I absolutely
love sharing with people.
And it's the last 19 years
of my life experience
and research and sharing
with other people
that I'm teaching in the
energy codes coursework.
So this would be the
auric field, also, OK?
So we're not leaving the
auric field out of it
because that's who
you really are.
So this, when it
starts to imbue itself
into the physical dimension,
becomes first an aura.
And then it quickens and
compresses and compresses
to create physical form, OK?
>> Basically a similar
meaning, right?
>> Yes, it's the same.
The auric field in motion
is the toric field flow.
>> Oh.
>> Yeah, when it starts
moving and is in motion,
it creates this torus, OK?
Awesome.
So how are we doing?
Are we tracking?
>> Good, good, good.
>> Questions?
We're good, we're
good, we're good?
OK, just big concept questions.
Yeah.
>> Just in terms of the light
coming in, how does that affect
babies?
>> In terms of the light coming
in, how does it affect babies?
>> Yes.
>> In the womb?
>> In the womb and
as they're alive.
>> Well, the light coming
in is the baby coming in.
So it doesn't have an
effect on the baby.
It is the baby, OK?
So we are here developing
our own circuitry inside
of the energy field
of the mother.
So if the energy
field of the mother
has these distortions in it,
then we land here on purpose.
We are the electromagnetic
match for that.
That mother is providing the
perfect environment for you
to land and to work out what
you came here to work out.
So when people
feel like, I don't
know how I landed in
the family I landed in--
[LAUGHTER]
--or what is going on, I must
have read the roadmap wrong,
ah, I don't even know if
I'm on the right planet
for sure, those kinds of
feelings are valuable,
valid feelings.
But they're only you
thinking from the splat.
It's not you thinking from
the place that I'm describing
and encouraging you to return
to because when you return
to this, you totally get
why, exactly why, you
landed where you landed.
And how to bring your
authenticity forward
in those circumstances is
the point of you being here.
It's exactly why, OK?
So how are we doing?
Ready to keep rolling?
>> Yep.
>> OK, so there are a few things
that I want to share with you,
first of all, that are very
simple for you to do to start
to quicken the energy so that
you can pick up the power
of the toric field.
And please bear in mind that
in the actual coursework that I
teach, there are many,
many more techniques
than I will be able to
share with you today.
This is like a brief, like, "hi,
how are you doing; oh, my gosh,
let me share this with
you" kind of moment.
And so I do want you to be able
to leave with some things that
are going to change your
world if you utilize them.
And at the same time, I do want
to invite you into a bigger
study if you are interested.
It goes very far and
very deep and very wide
and reaches very high if
you are interested in that.
I take sacred journeys
around the world.
You don't have to go on those
to learn the coursework.
I teach the coursework right
here in LA and in Denver
and across the country.
I go into Phoenix and into
Texas and onto the East Coast,
as well.
So just keep in
mind that there are
answers here abound for you.
And that's why I'm on the
planet, is to share that.
So let's begin with
you recognizing
the difference of
how it feels to be
in the splat versus
calling yourself
and quickening yourself
back into the core.
So first of all, I'm
just going to invite
you to throw your energy
off of you and either
onto me or onto some object
in the room in front of you
to just disempower
yourself, empty yourself
the way that you
would if somebody
that upset you came into the
room and all of your energy
would go, rah, rush.
You don't do it on purpose.
But it's like they just
take your energy because
of a past association in your
subconscious that's stored.
And its gunk right here.
And they activate the gunk, so
it pulls you off of you and out
into the mental body,
into story land,
into the world where we write
stories and assign values
and judgments onto things.
So throw it off of you.
Notice how it feels in
your body when you do that.
Now call it all back home.
Claim it right
back onto yourself.
Just quicken it right
back into your core.
Just have it.
Claim it, just the
basic, raw energy.
Just pull the energy
back onto you.
And notice how it
feels in your body.
You're going to feel a
different feeling there.
Now throw it off of you again.
Just disperse it.
Now, this usually doesn't
happen purposefully.
This usually happens because
somebody comes in that taps
some subconscious
memory of a bear
and pulls you right back
into the memory storage
in the field, which is
what we were speaking
about on the panel
about how the bio
field and the mind and the
memory are not in the brain.
They're in the field.
It pulls you off.
So you think about the
disempowering situation--
throw it off into an
old story, something
you wish hadn't
happened, et cetera.
And notice how you
feel in your body.
And it does not feel the same.
Pull it back into
your home base.
Just claim it right back onto
this central point of focus
that is you.
Call it home.
And you're going to
notice in your body
that there's a
different feeling.
Can you feel the difference?
Just give me a little hand
or a nod or something there.
OK, awesome.
So what I want you to do is
that about 1,000 times a day
until you have a
distinction going, like, oh.
You don't have to
count 1,000, right?
Just every spare moment,
just call it onto subject.
This is me, subject.
Or you throw it off of you onto
some object, another person,
an object of your focus.
And then claim it back onto
subject, back onto you.
And just start to familiarize
your subconscious memory
with the distinction
between the two,
because once it starts to
build these awarenesses
on a basic, raw energy level--
and this is what the
energy codes are all about.
Here's what I want you to get.
The energy codes are about
not trying to process life
from the level of your mind.
This is the mental body.
People try to, like, I know
this is happening for a reason.
I'm going to just try to
find the blessing in it
and just keep going.
How many times
have we said that?
I know I need to get out of
my head and get into my heart.
How many times
have you said that?
I don't know why I can't
let go of this thing.
It just seems to be
haunting me no matter what.
How many times
have you said that?
All of that is because
we're attached to the mind,
living as the mind, trying to
do all the work of solution
from the mind.
And the mind is not the answer.
The mind is, at the most,
only one third of the answer.
Do you follow?
So we want mind, body,
breath working together.
Think of it this way.
The soul speaks to the body.
And the body speaks to the mind.
The essential self
speaks to the body.
And the body emanates
that out to the mind.
And the mind is supposed to
pick up on that and serve it.
Einstein says we were
given this beautiful gift
of the intuitive
and a rational mind
to act as its loyal servant.
And we've created a culture
that honors the servant instead
of the gift, OK?
This is what we're
talking about.
The only thing I would say is
that quantum science is now
saying that we weren't given
the gift of the intuitive.
I would say we are the
gift of the intuitive.
And we have cultivated
the rational mind
to act as our loyal servant.
And we have created a culture
that honors the mind instead
of the self, you got it?
The story.
So the mind writes stories
to complete itself.
It writes stories to give
itself something to tether to.
So here's you,
trying to come in.
You get stuck at the
level of the mind.
The very best thing you can
do is create an attitude,
write a story, have
a grudge, be upset,
have some kind of charge
at that energy level
because it keeps you tethered
close to the neighborhood
that you're trying to get to.
Think of yourself
like a helium balloon,
and you're trying to
get anchored here.
So you get to the mental body.
You start writing some stories.
You start having some reactions.
And you decide they're wrong.
And then you carry this
grudge because the grudge
is a heavier energy--
you following what
I'm saying here?
It anchors you.
And the anchoring
is good, except that
while it keeps you anchored,
eventually it creates a box.
You got a lot of gunk on
this, a lot more gunk on here.
Pretty soon it's the box.
That box is the ego.
It's the pain body.
It's the protective personality.
I call it the
protective personality
because people don't
like to have an ego.
But they don't mind having
a protective personality.
[LAUGHS] So we get a lot
of good work done that way.
[LAUGHTER]
Keep in mind, only the ego
doesn't want to have an ego.
[LAUGHTER]
So we're kind of duped anyway
if we do it that way, right?
So we have to just start to
approach this from an entirely
different perspective.
So I'm all about teaching you
how to work from the raw energy
that you are.
You're an energy being.
You're not a story being.
You're not an attitude being.
You're not a grudge being only.
It's only one energy.
You follow?
You're much more than that.
So we want to work with the raw
energy underneath the story.
And the body is constantly
reflecting that to you.
And so I'm going to show you
some things with this, OK?
So first we have to practice
subject, object, subject.
Subject, object, subject.
Collected, dispersed, collected.
Got that?
You can do that.
Please do it a bunch
of times because we
have to record in
the memory that there
is another way of being,
that I'm a choice here.
There's an option for me.
I'm not stuck out
here in the story.
I can choose just to
come back onto myself.
And the moment that you
do, your attitude changes.
It's amazing.
Now I'm going to add
something to that, OK?
What we first want--
and I think that you
have this in your worksheet.
Yeah, OK.
We have these four
anchor points right here
that are showing up on
your worksheet, all right?
These four anchor points--
and here's the side view
of the spine--
these are related to the
Bhandas in Eastern culture.
And there's other stuff added
on to that for our purposes.
But basically what we're
doing is anchoring ourselves
in the core of our being so
that when we come onto subject,
we can stay there more
easily, all right?
So we have to build
new circuitry.
We have to build a
new sense of self.
new perspective so
that we can free up our minds.
Right now your mind is
holding onto the grudges
that it's holding onto,
the grievances, the guilt,
the shame, the upsets, that
it is holding onto because you
are a big being.
You're a big helium balloon, OK?
You're high frequency energy.
And you're trying to
get into the density
of the physical dimension.
It's like a scuba diver has
to put weights on in order
to get down in the water, OK?
It's just like that.
So we hold on to
this density in order
to keep us closer to
this physical realm,
this physical world.
And so we can't let
go of our grudges
because we won't know
who we are if we do.
We'll float away, right?
So we have to go
further than story
and anchor all the
way at the core
if we want to not need
the story anymore.
If we want to not need
the guilt or the shame,
et cetera, as an
entity unto itself,
then I have to anchor
myself in the physical body
because your physical body
is the Earth version of you.
If you want to come all
the way here to Earth,
you have to come all
the way into the body.
And this is where you're going
to find that you are not.
So we have these
four anchor points.
So I'm going to teach you
how to do it right now.
First, we're going to
squeeze the muscles
at the base of the pelvic bowl.
So ladies, it's kind of
like a Kegel exercise.
Gentlemen, you're about to learn
what a Kegel exercise is all
about.
All right, so it's
basically if you
were going to the
bathroom-- here's
another way of approaching it.
If you were going
to the bathroom
and you had to stop the stream
instantly, like right now,
you'd have to
squeeze those muscles
with everything you've got.
You have to squeeze them
to stop that stream.
So those muscles are in the
area of exactly what we're
speaking about, OK?
No big deal.
But you got to squeeze them.
Squeeze them with everything
you've got right now.
And then relax it by 1/2.
When you relax it
by 1/2, now you
can start to do the work
that I'm speaking about.
So you can squeeze
that, and it's just
a matter of remembering.
So when you come on to subject,
squeeze Mula Bhanda, OK?
Now go off of subject
onto object and relax it.
All right, then to help you come
back onto subject, squeeze it.
And gather all your energy back
into the core of your body.
Now I'm going to add
three more points
on top of that that
are going to help
you start to stream this energy
without as much of a wobble.
So the next thing
you're going to do
is squeeze your heart in
the center of your chest.
You're going to
squeeze your heart
as if you were doing a push up
or as if you were doing a bench
press laying on a bench.
You contract your
pectoralis muscles.
Pull your shoulder blades
together and down, OK?
Right there, boom.
Now go inside, like
the rings of a tree.
Go inside from there.
And you're going to come
into the central heart area
where the heart chakra
is, not the heart
muscle off to the side.
So it's squeeze the heart.
It's like hugging yourself
deep inside the chest.
If it seems not
doable, it's just
because you've not been living
in there as much as you could.
And so you're not having the
dexterity and the musculature
that you will after you
begin to do this for a while.
Just like if you sat down
and tried to play the piano,
you can't make your fingers
do that or ride a bicycle
until you get used to doing it.
So you just keep doing that.
The next one is to constrict
the muscles in your throat,
like Darth Vader breathing.
It's like Ujjayi
breathing in yoga
if you're familiar with that.
And what we want to
do is breathe such
that you can hear your breath.
So for just a moment,
breathe like Darth Vader.
And breathe in and out
through your nose always, OK?
So it's like your
Darth Vader breath.
All right, so--
[LOUDLY INHALING, EXHALING]
It's that kind of a breath, OK?
It's going to sound
like a snorkel,
like you're snorkeling
or scuba diving.
It's that kind of
a sound, as well.
And the reason for that is that
you want your consciousness
to be able to find you
in the central channel.
That's what Ujjayi
breathing is about in yoga.
It's one of the
byproducts of that.
It's to anchor the consciousness
in the central seat
of the body, in the central
channel of the body.
So it also is important
that you belly breathe.
So we want to breathe
in with the belly.
And exhale, pull the
belly back to the spine.
Inhale.
Inhale with your belly.
And exhale, pull your
belly back to your spine.
So I want everybody to
take a deep breath in right
now with your belly, not the
upper lobes of your lungs.
And I'm going to
see if everybody
is doing this right, because
if I send you home breathing
like you think you're supposed
to be breathing and you're not,
you're actually doing exactly
the opposite of what you're
attempting to do there.
So take a deep breath in.
No shoulder movement.
Exhale.
I don't want to see your chest
move at all. (DEEPER TONE)
I don't want to see
your chest move.
OK, drop and give me 20.
All right, so you got this?
So you're breathing
from the diaphragm down.
It's like if you were
sitting up at a table
and you were
breathing and no one
could see your chest
moving at all, OK?
So breathing below right
here, below in the diaphragm.
Big inhale, big belly.
You have permission for a big,
fat Buddha belly right now.
Come over the top of your pants.
OK?
We have a culture
that is just duping us
in this way in a big way.
We suck in our gut, and
we puff up our chest.
Exhale, pull your navel
back to the spine.
Inhale, big belly.
Just want to make sure no
shoulders are duping you.
OK, exhale.
One more time.
And can you just unhook
your hands for a second.
Just unhook your
hands, and let's see.
Inhale again.
Big inhale.
Excellent, excellent.
And exhale.
Can you feel the difference?
Now take a chest breath.
Big chest breath.
[DEEPLY INHALES]
Feel the difference?
When you do that, you actually
elicit fight or flight
in your body, when you
breathe into the upper lobes
of the lungs first.
When you breathe into the
lower lobes of the lungs first,
you activate the
parasympathetic nervous system,
which calms you down.
So you want to belly
breathe, belly breathe.
More nerve endings,
more vascularity
in the lower lobes of the lungs
for the parasympathetic nervous
system and to oxygenate
the blood, both of which
signal to the brain,
cool to chill out.
Cool, you're relaxed.
No problem, no problem.
You follow?
Chest breathing?
You're under attack.
So when somebody says
take a big breath
before you go in that
meeting or before you
make that phone call,
if you go like this,
you're basically telling
your nervous system,
OK, we're going into a
den of bears, all right?
[GROWLS] OK, here we go.
And so you're, of course,
going to automatically perceive
everything from a place of
defensiveness, of guardedness,
of protectiveness.
And it's just not necessary.
It's not what we're
supposed to be doing.
All right, got it?
So the next thing
is number four.
And I'm going to come back and
review the first couple again
because they're the trickiest.
So we have this
constricted throat
so that you can
hear your breath.
And the reason is you want
to find the central core
channel of your body, OK?
These are your
marching orders, folks.
You leave here
today, you're going
to find your central
channel, do or die.
That's it, OK?
That's what you have to do.
And there is no
dying, by the way, OK?
The reason we're afraid of
death is because it's a lie.
And the biggest limiting belief
in the world is that we die
and that we can die.
And the one that predisposes
us to that limiting belief
is the idea that we were born.
And it just becomes
really tricky, OK?
You're an eternal being.
You've always been,
and you will always be.
And right now, you're in
here having this experience.
And if you knew that to the
core, you would be less afraid.
And you would be living
as freely as you're
designed to be living here.
You're creating this experience.
And you're not enjoying it at
all, and you're supposed to be,
OK?
So we're building the
circuits to make that easier.
All right, so the idea
is to come in here
where this is intense.
Let me just give you a tiny
bit of science here just
to kind of land that for you.
You know that quantum
science is showing us
that the tiniest relationship
between the spectrum
on physical matter to energy
is the photon-electron
relationship,
right in there, OK?
So photons have an
effect on electrons.
And electrons are
part of an atom.
And the atom is part
of the molecule.
And the molecule's
part of the cell, which
is part of the tissue,
which is part of the organ,
and the gland, and
the whole system.
You got that?
And it just keeps
going from there.
And photons are influence-able
by your own thought, OK?
So you affect photons
by how you focus.
You've been focusing your
senses to the external world.
And so the photon
density in here,
the conscious photon density
in the core of your body,
is nix, OK?
It's pretty low.
So what we want to do is
increase photon density
at the core because it begins
to have an effect on electrons,
which ultimately then would
have an effect on enough mass
that your sensory nervous
system can pick up
on the sense of
something in there.
Instead of feeling empty
and hollow and void,
you start to feel a sense of
self, a sense of presence that
is unwavering and unwobbling
and available unconditionally
to you.
So the whole key
is you want to know
who you are, regardless of
your external circumstances,
managing this
internal environment.
But you can't just use
your mind to do it.
Your mind alone is
not built for that.
And that's the shortcoming of
the whole conscious movement
in our culture, is
that we're trying
to use our minds to do
something that it alone
is not built to do.
When it's connected to the body,
the mind changes completely.
Yogis and meditators and
sages and the ancients
would sit on their heel in
Lotus Pose or in other positions
so that they were
constantly applying
pressure right in
this Root Lock area,
this Mula Bhanda
that I was saying
was like a Kegel
exercise and so forth,
this squeezing of those muscles
at the base of the pelvic bowl
so that they could
stay in their body
and expand their
consciousness instead of
taking their consciousness
and disembodying
and having these
out-of-body experiences that
will not change your life.
They just frustrate
you because you
have this experience of a
high frequency, amazing place,
and it's not here
when you come back.
But if you stay here and
expand your consciousness
at the same time, you are
anchoring and tethering
and able to integrate what
you're perceiving there.
I know this.
I've been doing this for
about 20 years in regularity,
having access to these
higher dimensions
and changing, healing a
scoliosis in my body--
a scoliosis-- and healing
migraine headaches
with exactly these concepts
and these practices
that I'm starting to
share with you, OK?
So not only that, I
am able to interpret
all kinds of information that
is considered cosmic information
or that is considered
sacred information or that
is considered
ancient information.
When I go to Egypt,
I'm able to perceive
what's going on with
the hieroglyphs in ways
that even the most respected
Egyptologists who are our tour
guide-- and the governor of
Luxor having dinner with us
and being in an
exchange about what
is happening here in
the communication,
endorsing what
I'm talking about.
There is something here.
And it is tapping the ancient
wisdom that every one of us
is made of.
It's tapping your origins.
So it's much more expansive
than just learning how to let go
of that person at work
who's bothering you so much
that you get neck pain
every time you go to work.
You follow?
There's a lot more
to you than that.
And of course, you know
that because that's
why we're gathered here.
But I want you to know that it's
all part of the same picture.
And it's all you.
So in this, we have
this ability to anchor
at Mula Bhanda, this Root Lock.
Anchor at your heart.
So it's like a Kegel
exercise at Mula Bhanda.
It's lifting the muscles
of the pelvic bowl.
It's squeezing the
musculature that, if you
were going to the
bathroom and had
to stop the stream
in an instant,
you'd have to squeeze
certain muscles.
Then kind of lift them
up toward your heart.
When you lift it or just
kind of draw it up--
and don't worry if you can't
get that happening right now.
If you practice it multiple
times a day, in the next week
you're going to start
to have a sense of what
I'm talking about.
In two weeks from now, you're
going to be doing this.
It's going to happen.
Do not give up.
It's just you just have
never tried to do it.
So then you're going
to squeeze the muscles
in the center of your heart
inside the pectoralis muscles,
inside the shoulder blades.
Come into the core of the body,
and squeeze these muscles.
Then you're going to constrict
the muscles in the throat
so that you close down this
aperture, because by squeezing
all this, what we're
doing is putting
the thumb over this
giant garden hose that is
the central channel, all right?
So now roll your eyes up.
And there's tension
behind the eyes.
Can you feel that tension behind
the eyes when you roll them up?
Now, this is a plumb line, OK?
A plumb line is
dropping straight
down through the central
core of your body.
So you don't have to
keep your eyes rolled up.
But find that place
behind your eyes.
You're actually pretty close to
the third eye area, all right?
So roll your eyes up, and then
roll them slightly together.
And find that tension point.
Now relax your eyes so that you
don't get funky in your head.
And now take a
breath from overhead
right down through
this plumb line
down through the central
core of your body.
Inhale through the center of
your brain, through the throat,
in through the
chest to the belly
where you're inhaling
to the belly.
[INHALES]
Big belly breath.
Squeeze Mula Bhanda.
And then you can
relax your eyes.
You don't have to
keep looking up.
But maintain your awareness
in this plumb line.
Exhale down through Mula Bhanda,
that Root Lock, into the Earth.
Now inhale up from the Earth
through this Mula Bhanda
into the belly.
Squeeze your heart.
And then roll your eyes up.
And as you exhale, you're going
to exhale up through the heart
space, through the throat.
Constrict your throat so
you can hear your breath.
And exhale right up
out behind your eyes
and out the top of your head.
[INHALES] And then take
an inhale from overhead
right into this big white
space behind your eyes,
into the throat, into the
heart, into the belly.
And squeeze Mula Bhanda.
And exhale right
down into the Earth.
Then take an inhale up from
the Earth into the belly.
Squeeze your heart.
And roll your eyes up.
Find your coordinates.
And you're way in here
inside the channel.
You're not in your
head watching this.
You've come down into
this elevator shaft.
Come down in here, and
exhale yourself right up
through the throat and
out from behind your eyes.
So it's imperative that
you not stay in your head
and envision this but that you
go down the elevator shaft,
right?
So you go in the elevator
at the third eye.
You inhale yourself
down through the throat,
down through the
heart, into the belly,
squeezing these four anchor
points along the way.
Then you exhale yourself
down through the body
and into the Earth because
that's what's really happening.
If you just think about it,
you're intellectualizing it.
You have to be in
the experience of it.
So inhale yourself up from
the Earth through Mula Bhanda
into the belly.
Feel yourself in the belly.
Let it feel warm.
Let it feel good.
Squeeze your heart.
Sit down in there.
Be comfortable.
Exhale yourself up through
the heart, through the throat.
Roll your eyes to this.
You're creating this channel.
And you're shooting
your breath out the top
of your head like a
whale would up and out,
a blowhole that it's
exhaling through.
Now inhale through that
blowhole again right
down through this
central core channel.
You first start
the energy being.
You move energy with the breath.
The breath is the
spirit in the body.
Inhale all the way to the belly.
Four anchor points.
Mula Bhanda.
Squeeze the heart.
Constrict the throat.
Roll the eyes.
Exhale yourself
down into the Earth.
You got it?
You're probably going to start
to feel a little different just
by doing this.
You come on to subject
when you do that, you start
to enhance the photon density.
You start to enhance
the density enough
that the sensory
nervous system can
start to pick up on who
you are, where you are,
where you live, who is the
true you underneath the story.
And everything begins to change.
Exhale up and out through
the top of the head.
All right, so these
are some basic things
that I just want you to
have this understanding of.
You got it?
Tracking there?
Yes, sir.
>> Is there a point where
you won't have to start
constricting as much?
Or is it just--
>> Yes, so the constriction
of the muscles.
Thank you for
asking the question.
Someone else had asked
me something similar
before we got started today.
You constrict these four
anchor points in order
to train the mind
to find you, OK?
You're training this mind
that's all about the story.
And it's all about (DEEPER TONE)
what's going on over there?
And I can't believe
this and that.
And dispersal.
And you're saying,
wait a second, boom.
I'm calling this
all right back here.
I'm landing this.
And as we do that, we
familiarize ourselves
with sitting in
that elevator shaft.
Then you don't have to contract
the muscles to stay there.
If you're doing these
practices but you
find yourself breathing,
but you're thinking about,
oh, I wonder what I'm going
to do after this is over today
kind of thing or what am
I supposed to do tomorrow,
you're not here.
It's a mechanistic
thing that will not
give you the result
that you're looking
for if you can stay there.
And if you start to
wobble or disperse,
squeeze them back again,
take a few breaths,
then start to relax them.
And keep breathing.
Yeah.
>> So if you've been
doing this for a while,
this should be something
that comes easy.
You shouldn't have to--
>> Correct.
Well, every breath that
you take from here on out,
the rest of your life, should
be a breath from somewhere
beyond the physical body
into the body to beyond
the physical body.
So from beyond the body
into the physical body
to beyond the body.
And then inhale from beyond
the body into the body.
And exhale beyond the body,
because every time you
do, you are affirming
that you are
more than this physical
body, that you are this.
And that's really where I would
take you in our coursework,
is identifying as this that
has created this vehicle
to move yourself through
this physical dimension to do
what you came here to do, OK?
Helpful there?
OK.
Yes.
>> So when people feel rage,
when they clutch with rage--
>> Yes.
>> --or fury--
>> Yeah.
>> --even historical figures--
>> --are they trying to
call their energy back?
>> Yes.
They're right here.
And they're coming here
again and coming here again.
When something
happens and you feel,
[GROWLS],, you feel your
body quickening like that,
it's gathering all this energy
that I'm speaking about.
It's the bio field that's
concentrating so that it
can fold over on itself
that it can be self-aware,
it can become
self-reflective and feel
and have a sense of self.
>> So [INAUDIBLE],, their
energy is out there,
and they're trying to--
>> They're trying to gather it
in here, you bet, absolutely,
which is why Gandhi can have
such a huge impact by sitting
down.
It's like the opposite
was happening.
The revealing of his own
magnificence was occurring.
And people were drawn to
that in a culture that
was available for
something like that, OK?
So when you get
angry, you do this.
And there's a purpose for that.
It's trying to anchor
you in the body.
It's trying to get you here.
And so anger can serve.
But there's a way to work with
anger instead of acting it
out or deflecting it or
writing a story about it
and getting stuck there.
We're supposed to
come on in here.
Now, what I teach in the
level one of the coursework
is how to make
those distinctions
and create this
thing for yourselves,
build the circuits so that we
take the wobble away so that we
fill in the gaps where
these circuits are not,
because we need the anger if
the circuits aren't in place.
We need the anger to anchor us
because the whole of creation
is expanding and anchoring
and expanding and anchoring
and expanding and anchoring.
So it's constantly
expanding, but it does so
through a series of expansions
and contractions and expansions
and contractions.
I don't call them
contractions because we
have a prejudice against that.
But they're anchorings.
So emotions like fear and
anger and guilt and shame,
those kinds of energies
are anchoring energies.
And if we would embrace them,
we no longer have to hide them.
We can utilize them
to anchor ourselves.
And then we're available
to expand even higher.
So the roots go deeper,
and we, the tree,
grows taller because of this.
You follow?
Now there's a big technique
I want to teach you guys.
So I have to keep going.
But let me answer this.
>> So the wobble
that you mentioned,
can that present physically?
>> Can the wobble that I
mentioned present physically?
It absolutely does
present physically.
If you can see here-- and
I had a scoliosis-- can
you see how scoliosis
could be represented there?
You bet.
If someone doesn't have
their root chakra in place,
they're going to
have a hip issue.
If someone doesn't have their
root chakra or second chakra
actively integrating
with others,
they're going to
have low back issues.
They're going to have
digestive problems.
They're going to
have adrenal fatigue.
These types of things
are definitely involved.
In the coursework, I teach
you all those relationships
and show you how it's all laid
out in a perfect map of what's
going on in your life.
There is zero mystery to
what's happening, yeah.
Good.
Awesome.
Yeah, mhm.
>> So she mentioned earlier
as far as the anger, right--
>> Yeah.
>> --and holding everything in.
>> You're saying not to block
it because that's something that
we need to realize.
>> Yeah, don't block it at all.
Embrace it.
In fact, let me just
show you this, OK?
So there's another technique
that I want to get to.
And it's going to
take us a while
to teach it and do it, OK?
So I'm watching the clock.
And I'm watching
what we're doing here
because I want you to have this
because it's huge, all right?
But let's say this.
And this is even
bigger than what I'm
going to teach you in detail.
And this is where we're
going to head and build
upon tremendously
in the coursework
that I teach called the
Energy Codes coursework, which
you can find on my website.
But right now, let me give
you just a taste of it
so that you can start playing
around with this a little bit
in the meantime.
When you feel anger or
you feel some emotion
that you don't want to
feel, take your attention
to the body.
Remember when I said go
onto object and notice
how you feel in your body
and it doesn't feel so good?
You come onto subject,
and it feels better.
And we're just starting to adapt
our sensory nervous system.
We're developing sensory
acuity in the core of our body.
And that's the key.
So if we are splatted by
an emotion like anger,
if in the same moment
that you're angry,
if you take your attention
to the body-- and you're
going to read about
this in the book.
If you get the book,
this particular skill
is in there, as well.
It's a fantastic way to start
to build the circuits to take
the wobble out of your world,
because you feel anger because
of lack of circuitry.
If all of your
circuits were in place,
nothing would bother you.
Nothing would bother you if all
of your circuits were in place.
Do you follow?
You follow?
Does that make sense?
Because now you're awake at all
of the vibrational frequencies
of your wholeness, so
nothing's going to anger you.
You might take
action on something.
You might have an
assertion about something.
You might be passionate
about something.
But it doesn't
personally threaten you.
You follow?
It's a lack of circuitry.
So the next time you're angry
or hurt or upset or afraid,
take your attention to the body.
There's going to be a charge
somewhere in your body.
It's going to show
up like a knot
in your stomach, a
lump in your throat,
tightness in your chest.
Something is going to happen.
Squeeze it back.
Just squeeze it back.
It's trying to squeeze.
It's squeezing because there's
a lack of circuits there.
Your system's trying to rise up.
And it hits the
lack of circuitry.
And it creates this
rush of excess energy.
And you feel it like a
knotted up place in your gut,
in your heart, in your throat,
in your chest, somewhere.
You squeeze it back, and you
let it know, I'm onto this.
I'm finally going to
use this system the way
it was built to be used.
I'm going to use
it to my advantage
instead of just trying to
fend for myself alone out
here as this mind.
I'm going to use the
body and the mind
and the breath together
to build the circuits
to [INHALES] come into
this fullness of my system.
So you take your
attention to the body,
see where there's a
charge, squeeze it back.
Let it know contact has been
made so that the mind is
telling the body,
OK, I'm finally
listening, because if the
soul speaks to the body,
the body speaks to the mind,
and the mind doesn't listen?
(DEEPER TONE) Now I'm listening.
I'm listening.
OK, I've suffered long enough.
All right already.
So here, you don't
just observe it.
Observation is not enough.
It does create some
photon density.
But you've got to
talk body talk.
You can't talk mind
talk to the body
and expect the body to
get that you get it.
Do you follow?
You squeeze it back.
You squeeze your
four anchor points.
And you start coming in here and
breathing because when you do,
you start to build the circuitry
in the electromagnetic energy
field.
You start to stream
energy through there
in a fashion that's
coherent, that's consistent,
that's robust and now focused.
And you breathe up and
down the central channel
until the knot or the lump
or the charge dissipates.
And as it dissipates,
it dissipates
because we've created more
of this perfected flow
than the wobbly flow that's
associated with the story that
elicits the anger or the fear
or the frustration in you.
You got that?
The next time you're angry,
take your attention to the body.
Next time you're freaked
out, afraid, upset,
take your attention to the body.
There's a charge
somewhere in your body.
And your body is
trying to set you free.
Just come here.
Come home.
Come right here.
Build some circuits,
and let this flow
happen so that this can happen.
Got that?
>> Got it.
>> OK.
Now I'm going to
teach you something
that's going to take you
into gunk hunting, all right?
So you're going to dissolve
this stuff really rapidly.
And it's a muscle testing
technique that you can learn,
that you can do on yourself.
You can do it with someone else.
You can get together
with friends.
You can show them how to do it.
Or you can just show them
how to push on your arm
so that you can do this, OK?
So now I'm taking you
back to the nervous system
because here's the deal.
The electromagnetic
energy system
creates the nervous system.
It creates the nervous system.
And the nervous system
runs your body, OK?
And so the nervous system
stores information.
And it's constantly referencing
that information, et cetera.
So we want to update the
information that's being
stored in subconscious memory.
So now what we're doing
with the energy codes work
is working with
energy on every level.
So now I'm going to teach you a
way to clear some subconscious
interference.
So here's what happens.
Remember I said
earlier that what
closes the trapdoor, what
slams shut the trapdoor,
is unresolved emotion.
That's the number one cause
of the trapdoor slamming shut
and your conscious
and your subconscious
no longer being in constant
communication with each other.
So then you think it's time
to relax, but your body won't.
You want to heal, but you don't.
You want to be more successful
or to master life in some way
or to manifest in certain
ways that aren't happening.
It's your subconscious that
runs your life, all right?
And so awakening
is about bringing
what is subconscious up
to the conscious level,
becoming aware of that which
you were not aware of before.
And that's what
I'm teaching you.
So what I want to do
right now is show you
a technique that will
allow you to begin
to address opening the trapdoor
in rapid fire in a very
tangible fashion.
So it's not just working
with invisible energy.
We're kind of using the
body and muscle testing ways
and clearing up some unresolved
emotion without using the mind
to do it, but using the mind
and the body and the breath
collectively to do so.
Makes sense?
>> Yep.
>> OK.
So I need someone
who's never seen me do
best release, a technique to--
yeah.
Come on up, sir.
OK.
All right, so hi.
What's your name?
>> Ash.
>> Pardon.
>> Ash?
>> Yeah.
>> That's not what it says.
>> That's says [INAUDIBLE].
>> Somebody else.
OK, just putting it
all together here.
OK, so I want you to
think about something
that you'd like to have
manifest in your life, something
that you would like to hold
as true for you, that you feel
you would love to
have, what you would
love to have occur in your
life as though it's already
happening.
Think about it in present
term and positive sense.
So present tense,
positive sense, not, I
want to do this next year.
But claim it as though
it's already happening, OK?
So can you think of something?
>> Mhm.
>> OK, so right now,
I just want you to--
what's your name?
It's Pash?
>> Ash.
>> Ash, OK.
Ash.
So just hold this right here.
Relax your wrist.
Keep your elbow straight.
And I'm going to press
down toward the floor.
And you're not going to
let me push down on it.
So just think my name is Ash.
And hold here.
Push back.
And think my name is Sue.
And push back here.
Can you feel the
difference there?
>> Yeah.
>> My name is Ash.
All right, just checking.
>> My name is not
Sue, definitely.
>> [LAUGHS] We definitely know
your name is not Sue now, OK?
So this is one of the
things that my father was
working with when we were kids.
And my brothers and I
were very disappointed
when we realized that
when we told the truth,
our arm was strong.
And when we told a
lie, our arm went weak.
It was a very sad
day in our household.
[LAUGHTER]
>> [LAUGHING] Did
you go to the party?
No.
Whoosh.
[LAUGHTER]
We didn't stay very long.
Whoosh.
Oh.
OK, we had the
party at our house
while you were
traveling and teaching.
Boom, strong.
Yah.
OK.
So now I want you to
think about your goal,
your vision, this thing that
you would love to have manifest.
You got what I'm saying here?
So he's tapping into a
vibrational frequency that's
higher than the one his
body is operating in,
or it wouldn't be a dream.
It would be happening already.
So he's just
thinking of something
that he would like to have be
manifesting true in his life
as though it already is there.
OK, think of it.
Hold this right here.
And push back.
OK, so the good news is we
can do something to help, OK?
So what is happening right
now is his subconscious
doesn't believe that the
vibration of that goal
is a safe vibration for
his system to access.
It's too vibrationally
different, so it shuts it out.
It's like, nope.
There's something stored
in the subconscious mind,
in the subconscious memory,
that says no, we are this.
And the subconscious'
job is to protect him.
It's to keep him alive,
keep him safe until he can
do what he's here to do, OK?
So it's going to
ward off anything
that's too high of a vibration.
If he's vibrating here and
he has this goal that's here,
it's like, no, I can't
get there from here.
If it was here, if the goal
was here, I could do that.
But mm-mm.
So what we're going to
do is lift him to here
because the subconscious
will make a jump like this,
but it won't make
a jump this big.
Do you follow?
It's just too different,
too far, too foreign.
Got it.
So I love it that I
get to talk like this,
and you guys are like,
yeah, get it, get it.
You know, 20 years ago,
people would be like, what?
It's just so awesome, such
an awesome time to be alive.
OK, so now I want you
to understand that there
are six basic things--
I can't go into the long
detailed explanation
as to why-- but there are
six basic emotional states
and dispositions that
interfere with the system being
free to manifest, et cetera.
And it's on your
sheet, those six words.
It's fear, anger,
love, and sadness
are the four psychological
reasons that all emotions can
be boiled down to.
All other emotions
spring forth from those.
Another disposition that we
encounter is that we judge.
And because we judge,
we take ourselves
out of the big
celebration of life, OK?
We take ourselves
out of the big Yes.
When we decide, no, that
shouldn't have happened,
we now are no longer in the
game of the green out here.
We're in the game of the red.
So Ash, if you can just
step back for just a second
here and just let me
show that, right here,
this is who you are.
And you're trying to have
that experience of you
all the way here.
And when we judge something as
right or wrong, good or bad,
should or shouldn't, boom,
we get stuck right out here.
We draw some gunk.
Or we blow some circuits
right here in the mental body.
And so we've taken
ourselves out of the game
of playing in the green.
And now we're living
inside this box of the red,
of the judgemental mind.
You follow?
All right, so we want to make
sure that's out of the way.
So we're going to check
to see if that's going on,
if judgment happened,
if the byproduct of that
is running the show, or if
it's one of these basic four
emotions.
And so he doesn't
have to understand
how these emotions, these
words that I'm going to say,
relate to his goal,
because they're vibrations.
And they are active
instantly in his system.
He doesn't have to understand
the story between it.
All of this work is
about getting you
underneath the level
of story and processing
all of the vibrational
frequencies
that you are made of and
integrating them so that you
have access to all of them.
So that's the key.
So now you hold this here.
And you're just going to think
of these words one at a time.
You have to keep your eyes
closed because they were
closed when your arm went weak.
So I'm going to do that.
Do you follow what I'm saying?
If his eyes had
been open, I'd have
tested all these other
words with his eyes open.
If his eyes had been open
and this goal tested strong,
I would have him
close his eyes, and I
would test it both ways,
because one of the other
might make it go weak.
And I want to find the
one that makes it go weak.
Got it?
OK, so now you're
keeping your eyes closed.
And I'm going to
just say six words.
And I'm going to test your
arm in between each of them.
So you hold it right here.
Don't let me push it down.
And think of the word "fear."
So I'm asking, what's
in the interference?
Is it fear?
Hold here.
Is it anger?
Is it love?
Hold here.
Is it sadness?
Is it enjoyment?
Hold here.
Is it judgment?
There it is.
OK, so the word "judgement"
short circuits his system.
If I go back to
anger, push back here.
It's not anger.
Hold here.
Is it judgment?
It's judgment.
You follow?
So you have these six options.
They all represent different
vibrational frequencies.
The one that's nailing
him is judgment.
So he doesn't even have to
know, was it him that judged?
Was it somebody else
that judged him?
It doesn't matter because
it's the vibrational frequency
of judgment itself that
short circuits my system.
Whether it's me
or somebody else,
it doesn't matter, because as
quantum science would tell us,
there's only one of us here, OK?
So if someone judged
you, they are a part
of your own consciousness that
is judging the other parts
of your own consciousness.
And there's a battle
going on in there, OK?
That's the only thing
that's ever going on.
But that's another conversation
for another time, OK?
So let's have you take a step
forward with your right leg,
a little bit bigger.
And then you're going to
bend your knee so that you
can feel your muscle here.
And everyone's going to
be doing this exercise.
And then you're going to raise
this left arm up overhead
at about a 45 degree angle.
Now you can open your eyes.
And you can look right up
here at your left thumb.
So just open your
hand like this.
And you're just going
to look at this.
Now the other thing that you're
going to do is take this hand
and just place it
up here and open it.
And then you're going to
open it wide like this
and bring it right
back down behind you.
Now, that motion
isn't necessary.
But that's the way
that he's going
to have this hand
placed the proper way.
We don't want the thumb down.
And if I say, no,
point your thumb up,
we don't want him to
go around the other way
like your arm is being
twisted behind your back.
It needs to be up
and open like this.
OK, got that?
So it's a Cross Crawl exercise.
Bend this leg so you can
feel yourself in there.
Now you're going to tilt
your head off center.
And you're going
to close this eye.
And now you remember
those four anchor points?
One at the base of
the pelvic bowl.
One at the chest.
Squeeze the heart.
One, constrict the throat.
And then you're
looking right up here,
so feel that tension
right behind your eyes.
Now this, I'll tell you what
it's going to activate later.
But right now, I want
you to take a deep breath
in from the Earth up
through these points right
into your core, right into here.
And just focus on, I forgive any
interference regarding judgment
as it relates to this
goal known and unknown.
You don't have to know
how it affected you.
And when you have
to exhale, I want
you to exhale up
the top of your body
and out the top of your head.
And take a deep breath
in from overhead.
And breathe in
down into the body.
And I forgive any interference
regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal.
Keep that leg bent.
There you go.
And then exhale into the Earth.
And then step back to center.
And then you're
going to step forward
with your opposite foot.
We're just going to
do the other side.
And now this arm goes up.
So it's the opposite arm
and leg are coming forward.
This opposite arm comes up here.
And that swings around here
just so that these hands
are placed properly.
And if you know how
to do that, then you
don't have to actually
do the ceremony
of arching it this way.
And you bend this leg so
that you can feel this knee.
This gets you down in your body.
It gets you down in there.
And you squeeze Mula
Bhanda, this Root Lock.
And you squeeze your heart.
And you constrict your throat.
And you look right up this arm.
Now if you can close
this opposite eye,
that's even better.
It just starts to add more
things into this Cross Crawl
contralateral exercise
that we're working with.
Now take a deep breath
in from overhead.
Breathe into your belly.
Doesn't matter if you start
at the top or the bottom--
wherever you feel drawn.
And just focus on, I forgive any
interference regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal,
conscious or subconscious,
known and unknown.
And exhale.
Drop it into the Earth.
And then keep these four
anchor points squeezed.
And then take a breath up from
the Earth through Mula Bhanda,
through the squeezed heart,
right into the belly here.
I forgive any interference
regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal.
And constrict the throat.
And roll the eyes just
enough that you can feel
the tension behind your eyes.
And then as you exhale,
up through the throat
and out the top of the head.
And then one last breath.
Let's just come in.
Just go up and down the
channel a couple of times
into the core.
I forgive any interference
regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal.
And then right back to center.
We're just going to do the
same thing the opposite side.
There you go.
Right leg forward.
Other right leg forward.
There you go.
Awesome.
And the left leg
here-- or the left arm.
I'm really confusing you.
OK, right here.
Out there.
Sweet, bend this knee.
That's where you'll
forget it, and you'll
miss the great benefit of
being down here in your body.
Right there.
So deep breath in.
I forgive any interference
regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal.
Breathe it up.
And then exhale out.
Or breathe it down,
and exhale down.
And then one last breath from
one end of the central channel
into the core of the body.
I forgive any interference
regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal.
And then exhale up and
out through the other end
of the channel.
And then step back to center.
You following what I'm saying?
That's a contralateral exercise.
The leg, once more.
The leg.
The other opposite arm.
>> So you do up and then down?
Up and down?
>> Yeah.
OK, got it?
Tilt this off-center.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Pardon.
>> Is it my left eye I close?
>> You close the opposite
eye from the arm that's up
in front.
Deep breath in from above,
let's say, into the core.
And exhale into the Earth.
And then inhale.
I forgive any interference
regarding judgment
as it relates to this goal.
And then exhale
out the other end.
OK, now let's come
back to center.
And just hold this out here.
And just relax here.
Hold right here.
Hold this up.
Don't let me push it down.
Think of the word "judgement."
Push back here.
Excellent.
I could do pull-ups on this.
[LAUGHTER]
And now think of your goal,
because this is the key, right?
So think of the goal as
though it already exists.
And push right back here.
Think of this.
Fantastic.
Rock on.
[APPLAUSE]
>> I'm cured!
[LAUGHTER]
>> [LAUGHING] Thank you.
That is awesome.
Awesome.
>> Are you doing it
once on each side?
>> So it's up and down.
Up and down.
>> Twice on each side.
>> Four times.
>> Yeah, I noticed--
>> Two times each side.
>> --sometimes you inhale down.
>> It doesn't matter.
You just have to go--
I used to teach that
you have to start here.
But if you let yourself go
to where you need to go,
you're going to get
there faster instead
of me dictating that
you start at the top
because you're going to be drawn
to where the energy is really
needing to be worked with.
>> OK, so there's no
particular reason why you--
>> You just have to--
no, no.
Just go twice.
>> Twice.
>> Just go twice each side.
And it's opposite arm
and leg because you're
activating the right hemisphere
and the left hemisphere
of the brain, the
cerebellum right and left,
the vestibular apparatus,
which is your balance,
and so forth, the optic centers,
the respiratory centers,
the right side of the body,
the left side of the body,
the upper body and
the lower body.
And it's a sequencing.
We're resetting it.
It's like a big engine
that all the parts work,
but it's not firing to
start to burn the fuel
to get the engine started.
So all of that
happening simultaneously
is a giant reset that
allows your system
to build the circuits.
The central channel
breathing is to do this.
The holding of the
breath is that your body,
if you breathe in and
hold it as long as you can
and exhale, when you're
doing this on your own,
hold it as long as
you can and then
exhale, because the longer
you hold your breath,
the more your body
starts evaluating,
do I really need to keep all
this other noise going on
in my nervous system?
Or do I need to just
drop it because it
requires more energy?
And in doing so, I could
conserve more energy
and it will last longer
if this person can't take
another breath for a while.
You follow?
So it'll be helpful in
re-evaluating and allowing
the body to reprioritize.
>> By holding the breath
longer, what happens?
>> Well, if you hold
your breath longer,
what begins to happen
is you begin to signal
to the subconscious nervous
system that if another breath
can't be taken in a while, I
should relax these muscles that
are tense, keeping me
in defense physiology,
because they consume more
oxygen than if I release them.
If I release them, they're
not consuming the oxygen.
In case he can't take
another breath for a while,
it will save the energy and
he could survive a little bit
longer.
So we're using the body's
survival mechanisms
upon itself to allow
for a new breakthrough.
So basically, then,
what we're doing is,
right in the middle of flipping
all those breaker switches off,
we're putting in a new
idea of forgiveness
about the very thing that
slammed the trapdoor shut
in the first place.
So that's how we're
working with it.
So you can also self-test here.
You can do any kind
of self muscle testing
that you're familiar with.
If you make a ring
with one hand and you
make a ring with the other hand
and you flatten one of them
and insert it inside
the other, you
can use this one to pry
it open and this one
to be the muscle
that's being tested.
And he could say, my name
is Ash, Ash, Ash, Sue.
Sue would break it open.
Ash would keep it tight.
Now you have to say your name.
You can't say my name is Ash.
[LAUGHTER]
Just clearing that up, OK?
All right, yes.
>> Do you start with minor
issues and then work up
to larger issues?
>> Doesn't matter.
It comes up, you do it.
You clear it.
Now, it doesn't mean that
whatever word comes up,
you need to keep forgiving that
all day long today and tomorrow
and the next day and write
them down and track that.
Don't do that because
you're just recreating.
It's done.
Let it be done.
Move on to the next
thing that comes up, OK?
>> It could be the same goal
with a couple of different
emotions.
>> You could have different
emotions come up with it,
as well, yeah.
But when you come back and test
for the goal, if it's clear,
go for it.
Go on to something else.
Don't keep recreating
your issues
to have to work
through them, yeah.
>> Yeah, you don't have a DVD
with these exercises, do you?
>> DVDs with this exercise?
Yes, in the store on my website.
It's called
"BodyAwake" number one.
And it'll teach
you how to do that
with other techniques
involved with it.
"BodyAwake" number one.
I think you guys
have an order form.
Did they pass that
out when you came in?
Let me just briefly go
over that for you just
to let you know about some
other support materials that
are available for you.
Does anybody need one
that doesn't have one?
Dr. Lisa, if you can, yeah.
Awesome, thank you.
Thank you, thank you.
OK, so right up here, let me see
if the BodyAwakes are on there.
They're not specifically.
So you can go to the website
and get "BodyAwake" one
specifically if
you want to learn
how to do that technique more.
No, it's "BodyAwake"
DVD number one.
It's not on there.
We have other things, OK?
So you could write
that on the bottom,
and they'll send it to you.
Or you can go to the website
and order it, whichever way
you want to deal with that.
Lisa's going to be back
here to help you with things
if you're interested in
the coursework or any
of those things.
Let me just go through this.
These are some very easy
things to get involved just
to learn a little bit more,
just to have exposure to that.
"108 Ways to Manifest
Your Magnificence"--
I literally am just
giving you ideas.
It's something you can listen
to in the car or what have you.
It's also in a little book form
that you can open up anywhere
and read those kinds of things,
just some fun things there.
The "AM-PM Meditation"
is definitely grounding.
After I had this big
awakening experience,
the very first thing that I
felt compelled to do was I
woke up at 5 o'clock in
the morning and called--
I waited until a decent
hour to call him.
But one of my patients
was a recording artist.
And I knew he had a studio.
And I said, Jay,
there's something
that's good coming out.
I don't know, I've got to
come and record something.
And he had it turned
on when I got there.
And I sat down,
and it was whoosh.
It was just this total
download from this state.
And I've had more
comments on that
than you would imagine over
the last 15 years or so.
So many, many
things here for you.
But I just want to go
straight to the key that
is so valuable for you.
And that is the live events,
which I do have here in LA
and other cities
across the country.
There is a level one for that.
There is a support package
here that gives you
more information,
right under here,
that's just a collection
of CDs and DVDs.
Oh, "BodyAwake" one is in that.
So it's right here.
It's under the second red bar.
That little area has
a support package.
And "BodyAwake" one is a DVD
that is in that and so is
the "AM-PM Meditation"
I'm seeing there.
So that's a great
collection of things
that would be an easy way
for you to plug in to getting
more practice with all this.
The next thing that I would
recommend that you do,
which most people do,
is come to the level
one of the coursework.
And that is a three-day event.
It's a Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
Or you can just come
on Saturday and Sunday
because on Friday, I start
the whole big quantum
conversation like what we
have been having here today.
And yet it's included if you
do want to come to the level
one of the coursework.
The--
>> So what's the difference
between the first one
and the second one?
>> Where, what?
>> This one and this one.
>> OK, this up here
is CDs and DVDs.
This second one down
here is a live event, OK?
It's the live event
that you come to.
And if you purchase that
when you're at a live event,
like this one today, there's,
like, a $400 savings.
So it's normally $895.
It's $495 if you purchase it
while you're here because Lisa
can take that back.
And it's a lot easier
thing for us to administer.
So the next two,
there's one in Phoenix.
There's one in Salt Lake City.
Salt Lake City is
coming up pretty soon.
And then in the fall is Phoenix.
And I'll be back here in LA
after the first of the year.
So--
>> How long is the level one?
Oh, it's a two-day workshop
>> Yeah, it's a
weekend workshop.
>> So it takes this,
and it's more detail?
>> Much more detail, much more.
I mean, we're barreling
through here in two hours.
And it's 9:00 to 6:00
and 9:00 to 4:00.
And you get the free day of
Friday, which is 9:00 to 4:00,
also.
So there's a lot more time to
infuse lots more information
into the mix.
And then if you know
that this is something
that you are totally jazzed
by and you want to plug in,
many people just purchase
the whole package
because of the savings
that's coming there.
And it's a deep inquiry into
enlightenment and embodiment.
It's about self-healing.
But it's much more than that.
It is ultimately
teaching you how
to build the circuits
for self-illumination.
I want the circuitry
in the system
to be there, where
the wobble is gone,
where we're stabilizing
vibrationally
so that the third eye can
open so that we can start
to perceive ourselves as
the multidimensional beings
that we are.
And that's really
what it's all about.
That's what I'm teaching.
But you know, we have
to start somewhere.
So here we are.
So that's that.
If you have more questions about
that, Lisa's happy to answer.
And I'll be back there
afterward to help you, as well.
Let's flip it over, and
just let me show you
a couple of more things
that are going on.
I also do healing
retreats where there is
hands-on treatment happening.
I have practitioners
that I've been training
and that have been working with
me for years, practitioners
that were trained by
my father, as well,
that are working with you.
I'm teaching and
leading a whole healing,
teaching you how to do
self-healing modalities
all day long.
And then you're also
getting some hands-on work
if you're interested in that.
And we just had one
in Evergreen, Colorado
in February.
And the next one is in
Indianapolis in August.
And then next February,
we'll be back in Evergreen.
So those are the two locations
for the healing retreats
that we're currently doing.
Another thing that I want to
mention to you guys, which
I don't put on every
introductory order
form but I did for the
Conscious Life Expo
because of the nature of
the people that are here
and the open-mindedness
that are here,
I also have a Sedona
retreat every year.
And at the Sedona
retreat, what I am doing
is speaking into the sacred
sites around the planet
and the technologies
that were obviously
involved in the building
of those sacred sites
and activating your own
DNA and returning you
to conscious management of
your own DNA expression.
So it is ultimately about--
we explore ancient Lemuria
and ancient Atlantis
and ancient Egypt.
And I have memories of these
places that awakened in me
after this awakening occurred,
my opening of my third eye.
And I do bring all of that
conversation into the mix.
I also speak about what
happened in ancient Egypt,
what Machu Picchu
was all about, what
the teachings in ancient
India were, in the scriptures
of the Vedas and the
Upanishads and the Sutras.
And I tie it all together
in a user-friendly way,
something that you
might be interested in.
And so I put it
on here because I
thought I'd be dealing with
people that are open and awake.
And so I just want to
support you in these ways.
And so I normally keep that
for people who've already
engaged in the coursework,
and they're opening,
and they're starting to
build the circuits to manage
such things.
But I'm really very
focused on hitting the road
with this truth and
building circuits
in our conscious community
as quickly as we can
because the time
is obviously now.
And it's a beautiful support to
what's happening for humanity.
So that's the Sedona.
And then also I wanted
to mention that Kashi
is an ashram in Florida.
And it's a yoga silent
meditation retreat.
And I'm teaching you
some amazing concepts
about where Hinduism came from.
It's actually a user
manual on enlightenment.
The gods and goddesses are
part of your physiology.
The Ganesh, the
remover of obstacles,
is actually the primitive brain.
If you take the brain up out of
the body and turn it like this,
it looks just like the
face of an elephant.
And the cerebellum is the ears.
The cortex is the
crown of Ganesh.
The trunk of Ganesh
is the medulla.
The face of Ganesh is the pons.
All of this is part of
the primitive brain.
And Ganesh is considered
the removal of obstacles.
And what it means is when we
illuminate up past this point,
we don't see things
as obstacles anymore.
And so when we
invoke that, we're
invoking ourselves up
above the primitive brain.
And what I really want you
to get in my coursework
is that I'm teaching you
how to enlighten yourself.
I'm teaching you how to embody
your true higher self so
that you have the
frequencies that
are required for enlightenment.
Healing happens as
a byproduct of that.
But that's really not the goal.
The goal is much bigger
than just physical healing.
And so Kashi, I'm doing this.
I'm sharing that Hanuman, who
was in service to the gods
of the systems, the Vishnu--
sorry.
Hanuman was in
service to Vishnu.
And it is actually a story about
the endocrine system and how--
because Hanuman was said to
be able to leap big spaces
and fly and go into
tiny spaces, as well.
And this is about
the hormonal system
and how it saved
Sita from Lanka,
who was being held captive.
All of this is the idea
that the hormonal system,
the endocrine system, has
the capacity to heal cancer.
It's right there.
It's all exactly there.
And it's just a matter
of igniting and lighting
these vibrational frequencies.
So just know that there is a
tremendous amount of access
to information
here that you might
be interested in exploring.
So I do that at Kashi Ashram.
We also do yoga a
couple of times a day
and have silent meditation
days and that kind of thing.
Lastly, I'll just say that
I teach a version of yoga
that I am referencing
as BodyAwake yoga.
As I launch my book
here, two weeks from now,
March 19, the very
next book that I'm
going to be bringing
forward is a book about yoga
and the lost message of what
yoga was supposed to be.
It's supposed to be seating
consciousness in the body.
It's not just about
becoming flexible.
You are spirit.
You are formless.
When you are in the body,
your body becomes flexible,
and it heals.
So just know that if
you have an interest
there, that there's a
whole school of yoga that's
associated with yoga
alliance, as well.
And you can become
a yoga teacher.
Or you can just learn how to
do these things for yourselves.
It's all about circuit building.
So I can't say more.
I'd love to say more.
But I have to try to respect
the schedule today and send you
guys off.
Now let me just remind you.
You learned about subject,
object, subject, yes?
You learned about
take it to the body
when you're in an
emotional state
that you don't like so much.
You're going to learn how to
embrace it not through story
but just through the energy.
You're going to
take it to the body
and see where the charge is.
And you're going to start
breathing up and down
the central channel and
seat yourself with the four
anchor points in your
central channel all the time.
You're going to take a
breath from beyond your body,
through your body,
to beyond your body.
And you're going
to allow yourself
to start to animate the
subtle self, the true self,
the invisible you that has
created this physical you
and is driving it
through this life.
You're going to learn
how to let that happen.
And then we did this
muscle test to remove
subconscious interference that
is in the way, that is keeping
you from completely embodying.
We had a pretty awesome time.
We had a good conversation.
And we did all that in about
two hours and 15 minutes.
So thank you guys for your time.
It's been a great delight.
[APPLAUSE]
So I'll be in the back.
And I'm happy to answer
questions for you
and help you on your way.
Blessings to you all.
Safe journeys.
All right, yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]